'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH LABELS.CONF 5 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3labels.conf\f1 \- Performance Co-Pilot labels configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/pcp/labels.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
Several Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) tools and utilities support
the use of metric labels.
This functionality applied a hierarchical set of labels to each
instance of every metric, as described in
.BR pmLookupLabels (3).
.PP
The
.BR pmcd (1)
and
.BR pmproxy (1)
daemons are particularly important to the labels system,
respectively providing the labels in real-time and then
discovering recorded (archive) labels and indexing these
for
.BR pmseries (1)
queries using a
.BR redis-server (1).
.PP
The
.IR /etc/pcp/labels.conf
file is a single point of configuration for behaviour
affecting all labels exported by
.B pmcd
or through tools using PMAPI local context services.
It uses the common ``ini'' file format and any variable
it specifies that is not in an explicit square-bracket
enclosed section is considered a [global] variable.
.PP
The available configuration variables are as follows :
.TP 5
\fBmachineid_hash\fR=\fInone\fR|\fIsha256\fR
When specified in the [global] section, controls the
manner in which the local
.BR machine-id (5)
is exported as a label.
The default setting (none) exports a "machineid" context
label with value reflecting the contents of the
.I /etc/machine-id
file, on any platforms that provide this file.
The alternative (sha256) exports a "machineid_sha256"
label, instead, and the value is the SHA256 (one-way)
hash of the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmseries (1),
.BR redis-server (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLookupLabels (3)
and
.BR machine-id (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ machineid_hash machineid_sha machineid SHA sha
