'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2019 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMLOGGER.CONTROL 5 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogger.control\f1 \- control files for Performance Co-Pilot archive logging
.SH DESCRIPTION
Historical archive logging of performance data for
Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPIntro (1))
uses
.BR pmlogger (1)
and one or more instances of
.B pmlogger
may be managed by
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
and
.BR pmlogger_daily (1).
.PP
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
may be run at any time of the day and is intended to check that
the desired set of
.B pmlogger
processes are running.
If not, it (re-)starts any missing logger processes.
By default,
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
also calls
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
with a
.B \-K
option to execute any required archive compression tasks.
.PP
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
is intended to be run once per day, preferably in the early morning, as
soon after midnight as practicable.
Its task is to aggregate, rotate and perform general housekeeping for one or
more sets of PCP archives.
.PP
Both
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
and
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
operate on a family of shared control files, namely the
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
file and files within the
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH.d
directory.
These files must not be writable by any user other than root.
.PP
The control file(s) should be customized according to the following rules
that define for the current version (1.1)
of the control file format.
.IP 1. 4n
Lines beginning with a ``#'' are comments.
A special case is lines beginning ``#!#''; these are control lines
for a
.B pmlogger
that has been stopped using
.BR pmlogctl (1).
.PD 0
.IP 2. 4n
Lines beginning with a ``$'' are assumed to be
assignments to environment variables in the style of
.BR sh (1),
and all text following the ``$'' will be
.BR eval 'ed
by the script reading the control file,
and the corresponding variable exported into the environment.
This is particularly
useful to set and export variables into the environment of
the administrative scripts, e.g.
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
$ PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
If the value to the right of the ``='' contains any white space,
then the value should be enclosed in double (\[dq]) or single (\[aq]) quotes.
.IP 3. 4n
There
.B must
be a version line in the control file of the form:
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
$version=1.1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 4. 4n
Fields within a line of the control file(s)
are usually separated by one or more spaces or tabs (although refer to
the description of the
.I directory
field below for some important exceptions).
.IP 5. 4n
There should be one line in the control file(s)
for each
.B pmlogger
instance with at least 4 fields of the form:
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f2host\f1 \f2primary\f1 \f2socks\f1 \f2directory\f1 \f2args\f1 ...
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 6. 4n
The
.I host
field is the name of the host that is the source of the
performance metrics for this
.B pmlogger
instance.
The reserved word
.B LOCALHOSTNAME
will be replaced by the name of the local host.
.IP 7. 4n
The
.I primary
field indicates if this is a
primary
.B pmlogger
instance (\c
.BR y )
or not (\c
.BR n ).
Since the primary logger must run on the local host, and there may be
at most one primary logger for a particular host, this field can be
.B y
for at most one
.B pmlogger
instance, in which case the host name must be the name of the local host
(or
.BR LOCALHOSTNAME ).
.IP 8. 4n
The
.I socks
field indicates if this
.B pmlogger
instance needs to be started under the control of
.BR pmsocks (1)
to connect to a
.BR pmcd (1)
through a firewall (\c
.B y
or
.BR n ).
.IP 9. 4n
The
.I directory
field is a directory name.  All archive files
associated with this
.B pmlogger
instance will be created in this directory,
and this will be the current directory for the execution of
any programs required to maintain those archives.
A useful convention is that primary logger archives for the local host
with hostname
.I myhost
are maintained in the directory
.I $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/myhost
(this is where the default
.B pmlogger
start-up script in
.I $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp
will create the archives), while archives for the remote host
.I mumble
are maintained in
.IR $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/mumble .
.IP 10. 4n
The
.I directory
field may contain embedded shell syntax that will be
evaluated by
.BR sh (1)
to produce the real directory name to be used.  The allowed constructs
are:
.RS
.nr PD 0
.IP \(bu 2n
Any text (including white space) enclosed with
.B $(
and
.BR )
will be interpreted as a shell command.
.IP \(bu 2n
Any text (including white space) enclosed with
.B \[ga]
and
.B \[ga]
(back quotes)
will be interpreted as a shell command.
.IP \(bu 2n
An initial double quote (\[dq]) followed by arbitrary text
(including white space, but excluding an embedded double quote)
and a final double quote.
.IP \(bu 2n
An initial single quote (\[aq]) followed by arbitrary text
(including white space, but excluding an embedded single quote)
and a final single quote.
.IP \(bu 2n
Any word containing a
.B $
(assumed to introduce an environment variable name).
.nr PD
.RE
.IP 11. 4n
In the
.I directory
field, the reserved word
.B LOCALHOSTNAME
will be replaced by the name of the local host.
.IP 12. 4n
The optional
.I args
field and any remaining fields are interpreted as arguments to be passed to
.BR pmlogger (1).
Most typically this would be at least the
.B \-c
option to specify the metrics to be logged and the logging frequencies.
.PD
.PP
The following sample control lines specify a primary logger
on the local host (\c
.IR bozo ),
and non-primary loggers to collect and log
performance metrics from the hosts
.IR wobbly ,
.I boing
and the local host (i.e. \c
.IR bozo ).
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
$version=1.1
bozo          y  n  $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/bozo   \-c config.default
wobbly        n  n  "/store/wobbly/$(date +%Y)"  \-c ./wobbly.config
boing         n  n  $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/boing   \-c ./pmlogger.config
LOCALHOSTNAME n  n /cluster/LOCALHOSTNAME   \-c ./precious.config
.ft 1
.fi
.SH SCHEDULED EXECUTION
The periodic execution of
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
and
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
is controlled by either
.BR systemd (1)
or
.BR cron (8).
.PP
Typical
.BR crontab (5)
entries are provided in
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/crontab
(unless installed by default in
.I /etc/cron.d
already)
and shown below.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
# daily processing of archive logs
14      0       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_daily
# every 30 minutes, check pmlogger instances are running
25,55   *       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_check
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
When using
.BR systemd (1)
on Linux,
no
.B crontab
entries are needed as the timer mechanism provided by
.B systemd
is used instead to achieve the same period execution as the
crontab example above.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
the PCP logger control file.
For a new installation
this file contains no
.BR pmlogger (1)
control lines (the real control files are all
in the
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH.d
directory), but this file is still processed to support any
legacy configurations therein from earlier PCP releases.
.br
.BR Warning :
this file must not be writable by any user other than root.
.TP
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH.d
optional directory containing additional PCP logger control files,
with one or more per
.B pmlogger
specification per file.
.br
.BR Warning :
the files herein must not be writable by any user other than root.
.TP
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/crontab
sample crontab for automated script execution by $PCP_USER (or root).
Exists only if the platform does not support the /etc/cron.d mechanism.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogctl (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogger_check (1),
.BR pmlogger_daily (1),
.BR pmlogger_daily_report (1),
.BR pmsocks (1),
.BR systemd (1)
and
.BR cron (8).
