.TH PMVIEW 5 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmview\f1 \- configuration file format for performance 
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page describes version 2.1 of the
.B pmview
configuration file format.
.PP
The configuration format supports metrics from multiple hosts or archives.  A
configuration file can specify metrics without a source, with different hosts
and different archives.  However, a configuration file that contains archives
may only have one archive for anyone host.  When in ``replay'' mode, any 
metrics with host specific sources require an archive to be specified for that
host on the command line or as a source to a previous metric.  The archive must
be the same archive (based on a string comparison of the archive names) of any
archives specified in the configuration file for the same host.
.PP
The time controls will list all hosts that are specified on the command line
and the configuration file in the timezone listing (see 
.BR pmtime (1)).
.PP
The configuration file format is based on a two-dimensional grid which
can contain a variety of bars, stacks, links, pipes, labels and other
grids.  The grids resize each column and row to match the size of the
largest item in that column or row.  A configuration file that
contains only one object does not require a grid. The
.B pmview
configuration file starts with an identification header in the first
non-comment line:
.PP
.in 1.0i
.ft CW
.nf
pmview Version 2.1 \f2[command_line]\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
The optional
.I command_line
should be the command line with which the tool was launched, if the
configuration file has been generated by another tool.  This is useful for
applications that are to be restarted automatically on the next login, after
the user has logged out while
.B pmview
was still running.
Care should be taken to ensure that the command specified is either a
full pathname or will be found on the PATH available at login.
.PP
All lines which begin with ``#'' are treated as comments and
ignored.  Otherwise, all spaces, tabs and newlines are treated as white space
so multiple commands may be on the same line.
.PP
The syntax for specifying values in the configuration file is consistent for
all commands, namely:
.TP 4n
.I color
A color must be either a 
.BR X (1)
color name, a
.BR X (1)
numerical color, or three normalized
.I real
values representing the saturation of red, green and blue.  For example,
the following colors are identical:
.PP
.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
red
rgbi:1.0/0.0/0.0
1.0 0.0 0.0
.fi
.ft R
.in
.TP 4n
.I int
An integer.
.TP 4n
.I metric
A metric consists of an optional source (host or archive), the metric name,
an optional instance list immediately after name, followed by the maximum (or 
normalization value).  A colon (``:'') is used to separate a host name from the
metric, and a forward slash (``/'') to separate an archive name from the
metric.  Instances are enclosed in square brackets and comma separated.  Each
instance may be enclosed in quotes.
.IP
For example, some legal metrics are:

.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
kernel.all.cpu.idle 4000
myhost:kernel.all.cpu.idle[cpu0,"cpu3"] 1000.0
/path/to/myarchive/kernel.all.cpu.idle[cpu1] 1000
.fi
.ft R
.in

To assist the process of matching instance names, two further comparisons are
made beyond a simple string comparison.  If the instance name contains
spaces, only the first word in the instance name is required to match the
instance, assuming that the first word is unique.  If the first word is not
unique, only the first matching instance will be selected.  The second
comparison occurs if the first word is a number with leading zeros.  Any
leading zeros will be skipped before comparing the first word again.  This
permits process ids used in the
.I proc
metrics to be easily matched, without specifying the entire instance name.  For
example, to visualize the user and system time of 
.I init 
use the metric specification

.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
proc.psusage.utime[1]	1000
proc.psusage.stime[1]	1000
.fi
.ft R
.in
.TP 4n
.I name
A name for an object which may be referred to later in the configuration file.
Names must be a single word consisting of all alphanumeric characters, as well
as underscores, dashes and colons.  It is recommended that names do not begin
with an underscore as this may be interpreted as a keyword.
.TP 4n
.I pos
This is the position of the object within the grid.  The syntax of a position
is:
.IP
.in 1.0i
[ [\f2x\f1 \f2z\f1] [ [\f2width\f1 \f2depth\f1] [\f2alignment\f1] ] ]
.in
.TP 14
.I "       x"
The horizontal coordinate (left to right) of the object, starting at 0.  The
default
.I x
is 0.
.TP
.I "       z"
The vertical coordinate (top to bottom) of the object, starting at 0.  The
default
.I z
is 0.
.TP
.I "       width"
The number of columns occupied by the object.  The default
.I width
is 1.
.TP
.I "       depth"
The number of rows occupied by the object.  The default
.I depth
is 1.
.TP
.I "       alignment"
The edge or corner that the object is aligned with.  Possible alignments
include: \f2north\f1, \f2south\f1, \f2east\f1, \f2west\f1, \f2northeast\f1,
\f2northwest\f1, \f2southeast\f1, \f2southwest\f1 and \f2center\f1.
Abbreviations like \f2se\f1 and \f2SE\f1 are also accepted.  The default
alignment is \f2center\f1.
.IP
The size of an object may not be known as the number of instances for some
metrics will vary between hosts and 
PMDA
configurations.  Therefore, the position of the object can be used to specify
the likely size of the object, so that the position of the surrounding objects
is appropriately adjusted.
.IP
The following are legal positions:
.TP 21
.ft CW
              0 5
.ft R
The object is centered at grid position 0,5 occupying 1 grid square.
.TP
.ft CW
              1 2 north
.ft R
The object is aligned with the north edge of position 1,2 occupying 1 grid
square.
.TP
.ft CW
              2 2 2 1 east
.ft R
The object is aligned to the eastern edge of position 3,2 and occupies 2 grid
squares (2,2 and 3,2).
.TP 4n
.I string
A string is a series of characters enclosed in double quotes.  A string may
not contain newlines or escaped double quotes.

.PP
There are several parameters that may affect the size, shape and color of
objects when they are displayed.  These parameters are scoped so that they only
alter objects defined later in the same scope.  Therefore, parameter settings
at the top of a configuration file affect the entire scene, unless they are
changed later in the file.  Most of these parameters are also resources.
.TP 4n
\f3_barLength\f1 \f2int\f1
The side length of the
.B _bar
and
.B _stack
blocks.  Default is 28.
.TP 4n
\f3_barHeight\f1 \f2int\f1
The maximum height of a
.B _bar
and
.B _stack
blocks.  Default is 80.
.TP 4n
\f3_baseColor\f1 \f2color\f1
The color of 
.BR _bar ,
.B _grid
and
.B _stack
base planes.  Default is rgbi:0.15/0.15/0.15.
.TP 4n
\f3_baseHeight\f1 \f2int\f1
The height of
.BR _bar ,
.B _grid
and
.B _stack
base planes.  Default is 2.
.TP 4n
\f3_gapWidth\f1 \f2int\f1
The gap between blocks in a 
.B _bar
object in the X-axis.  The default is 8.
.TP 4n
\f3_gapDepth\f1 \f2int\f1
The gap between blocks in a 
.B _bar
object in the Z-axis.  The default is 8.
.TP 4n
\f3_gapLabel\f1 \f2int\f1
The gap between the base of a
.B _bar
object, and any metric or instance labels.  The default is 6.
.TP 4n
\f3_gridWidth\f1 \f2int\f1
The minimum width of a
.B _grid
column.  The default is 20.
.TP 4n
\f3_gridDepth\f1 \f2int\f1
The minimum depth of a
.B _grid
row.  The default is 20.
.TP 4n
\f3_labelMargin\f1 \f2int\f1
The margin around a
.B _label
object.  The default is 5.
.TP 4n
\f3_labelColor\f1 \f2color\f1
The color of 
.B _label
and
.B _bar
labels.  The default is white.
.TP 4n
\f3_marginWidth\f1 \f2int\f1
The extra width of a
.BR _bar ,
.B _grid
and
.B _stack
base plane beyond the objects on the plane.  The default is 8.
.TP 4n
\f3_marginDepth\f1 \f2int\f1
The extra depth of a
.BR _bar ,
.B _grid
and
.B _stack
base plane beyond the objects on the plane.  The default is 8.
.TP 4n
\f3_pipeLength\f1 \f2int\f1
Total length of a
.BR _pipe.
The default is the value of
.BR _barHeight.
.TP 4n
\f3_scale\f1 \f2real\f1
The scale applied to the entire scene.  This parameter may not be used within
any objects, only at the top of the configuration file.  The default is 1.0.
.PP
To simplify the specification of colors, a
.B _colorList
and a 
.B _colorScale
may be used to define colors for an object which has metrics
associated with it, i.e. 
.BR _bar ,
.B _stack
or
.BR _pipe .
A color list may be defined within an object, or named and defined at
the top of a configuration file.  A named color list may then be referenced
within multiple objects:
.TP 4n
\f3_colorList\f1 \f2name\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2color\f1 [\f2color\f1...] \f3)\f1
Associate the
.IR color s
with the color list
.IR name .
The assignment of colors to blocks depends on the type of an
object.  For example, the color list called 
.I foo
has the same color three times:

.RS 4
.ft CW
.nf
_colorList foo ( red rgbi:1.0/0.0/0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 )
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.TP 4n
\f3_colorScale\f1 \f2name\f1 \f2color\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2color\f1 \f2real\f1 [\f2color\f1 \f2real\f1...] \f3)\f1
Associate the
.IR color s
and
.IR real s
with the color list
.IR name .
The initial
.I color
is the default color of the object.  The object will change color to the other
colors when the normalized value of the object is equal to or greater than
each
.IR real .
Therefore, each
.I real
must be larger than the previous 
.IR real ,
and should be in the range 0.0 to 1.0.  This scale gradually changes from blue
to red:
.PP
.RS 4
.ft CW
.nf
_colorScale coldToHot blue ( rgbi:0.5/0.0/1.0 0.3 
                             purple 0.6 
                             rgbi:1.0/0.0/0.5 0.8 
                             red 0.95)
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
There are several different object types which could be found in a
.B pmview
scene: 
.BR _bar ,
.BR _stack ,
.BR _pipe ,
.BR _grid ,
.BR _link , 
and
.BR _label .
There is also
.B _xing
which is a special type of the
.BR _link .
The
.BR _bar ,
.B _stack
and
.B _pipe
objects are modulated by metric values, a
.B _label
is fixed text, 
.B _link
and
.B _xing
are interconnects and a
.B _grid
is a container of objects, including other
.B _grid
objects, which controls the layout of the scene.  A 
.B _grid
object is only required if there are two or more objects in the scene.
.PP
.BR _bar ,
.B _grid
and
.B _stack
objects may have base planes which provide a point of reference for the blocks
as they change height.  A label can be applied to the base plane 
.B _grid
object if it is
.B _shown
with:

.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_baseLabel\f1 \f2name\f1|\f2string\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in

.B _baseLabel
should be used within the scope of the relevant
.BR _bar ,
.B _grid
or
.B _stack
object.  The first ``\\n'' characters in the string will be replaced by a new
line.  Subsequent ``\\n'' characters will be ignored.
.PP
For a scene to be valid it must contain at least one modulated object.
.PP
The objects are defined as:
.TP 4n
\f3_bar\f1 [\f2options\f1] \f3(\f1 [\f2metric-list\f1] [\f2color-list\f1] [\f2label-list\f1] \f3)\f1
A
.B _bar
object represents a collection of blocks.  The number of blocks depends on the
number of metrics and metric instances assigned to the object.  By default, the
blocks are modulated by changing the height of each block.  Alternatively,
blocks may be modulated by changing color, or both height and color.  Each
color in the
.I color-list
is assigned to each metric.  Therefore, multiple instances of the one metric
will have the same color.  The
.I options 
that may be passed to a
.B _bar
object are:
.RS 4n
.TP 4n
.I pos
The position of the 
.B _bar
object within the current
.B _grid
object.
.TP 4n
\f3_col\f1|\f3_row\f1
Position the blocks so that each instance is in a column
.RB ( _col )
or a row
.RB ( _row ).
This implies that each different metric is in a separate row or column,
respectively.  The default is
.BR _col .
.TP 4n
\f3_show\f1|\f3_hide\f1
Is the base plane visible? Default is
.BR _show .
.TP 4n
\f3_ymod\f1|\f3_colormod\f1|\f3_colorymod\f1
Modulate the blocks by adjusting their height
.RB ( _ymod ),
color
.RB ( _colormod )
or both height and color
.RB ( _colorymod ).
.TP 4n
\f3_cube\f1|\f3_cylinder\f1
Set the shape of the blocks.  The default is
.BR _cube .
.RE
.RS 4n
.TP 4n
\f3_groupbymetric\f1|\f3_groupbyinst\f1|\f3_groupbyrow|\f1|\f3groupbycol\f1
Set the grouping of blocks when launching other tools. For tools like
.BR pmchart (1)
some views may generate many small charts which cannot be drawn entirely within
the screen.  Another problem is it may be more appropriate to generate charts
with the same instance in each chart, rather then the same metric.  The group
specifiers control the algorithm used so that a separate chart will be drawn
for each 
.B _metrics
specification
.RB ( _groupbymetric ),
for the first, second etc. instance of each
.B _metric
.RB ( _groupbyinst ),
or by the rows and columns of the
.B _bar
object depending on
.B _row
or
.BR _col .
The default is
.BR _groupbymetric .
.PP
The options must be specified in this order, although preceding options are
not required.  Therefore, this is legal:

.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
_bar _hide _cylinder ( ... )
.fi
.ft R
.in

The metrics, colors and labels are specified within the brackets in any order.
Only the 
.I metric-list
is mandatory.
.TP 4n
.I metric-list
A 
.B _bar
metric list contains a list of metric names, normalization values and an
optional label for the metric:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_metrics\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2metric\f1 \f2real\f1 [\f2string\f1] [\f2metric\f1 \f2real\f1 [\f2string\f1]...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.TP 4n
.I color-list
A 
.B _bar
color list may be a named color list that was defined earlier, or an unnamed
color list.  A 
.B _colorScale
list should be used when using
.B _colormod
or
.B _colorymod 
modulation.  Therefore, the syntax for color lists within a 
.B _bar
object are any of:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_colorList\f1 \f2name\f1
\f3_colorList\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2color\f1 [\f2color\f1...] \f3)\f1
\f3_colorScale\f1 \f2name\f1
\f3_colorScale \f2color\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2color\f1 \f2real\f1 [\f2color\f1 \f2real\f1...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP 4n
.I label-list
In addition to labels for each metric in the
.IR metric-list ,
metric and instance labels may be defined using
.B _metriclabels
and
.B _instlabels
statements.  The position of the labels around the
.B _bar
object depends on the
.B _row
or
.B _col
orientation of metrics and instances, and whether the label is read
.B _towards
the
.B _bar
object, or
.BR _away .
The default is
.BR _towards .

.RS 4
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_metriclabels\f1 [\f3_away\f1|\f3_towards\f1] \f3(\f1 \f2name\f1|\f2string\f1 [\f2name\f1|\f2string\f1...] \f3)\f1
\f3_instlabels\f1 [\f3_away\f1|\f3_towards\f1] \f3(\f1 \f2name\f1|\f2string\f1
[\f2name\f1|\f2string\f1...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.RE
.TP 4n
\f3_grid\f1 [\f2pos\f1] [\f3_show\f1|\f3_hide\f1] \f3(\f1 \f2objects\f1 \f3)\f1
A 
.B _grid
object is a container for objects, including other
.B _grid
objects.
The rows and columns of a 
.B _grid
object are resized to the largest object in the row or column.  If an object
spans multiple rows and/or columns, those rows and columns may be partly
resized to contain the object.  However, the resizing of rows and columns for
objects occupying multiple rows and columns occurs after resizing for objects
occupying only one grid square.

A collision between objects occupying the same squares will be reported as an
error message and the later object will be ignored.

The options to a
.B _grid
object control the position 
.RI ( pos )
of the 
.B _grid
object in the parent 
.BR _grid ,
and indicate whether to
.B _show
or
.B _hide
the 
.B _grid
base plane.  By default, the base plane is hidden.

The parameters described above may be specified within the brackets of a
.B _grid
object, however they only apply to the objects within the
.BR _grid ,
not the
.B _grid
itself.  For a parameter to be applied to a 
.B _grid
object, it must be specified before the
.B _grid
object declaration.

.RE
.TP 4n
.I "\f3_label\f1 [\f2options\f1] \f2string\f1"
A
.B _label
object draws the contexts of
.I string
at the location, orientation and size specified in the 
.IR options :
.RS 4n
.TP 4n
.I pos
The position of the
.B _label
object
in the current
.B _grid 
object.
.TP 4n
\f3_left\f1|\f3_right\f1|\f3_up\f1|\f3_down\f1
The orientation of the 
.IR string .
The direction indicates the direction the label is read.  Therefore,
.B _right
is the default since the string is read from left to right.
.TP 4n
\f3_small\f1|\f3_medium\f1|\f3_large\f1
The font size.  The default is
.BR _medium .
.RE

.RE
.TP 4n
\f3_link\f1 \f2pos\f1 [\f2string\f1]
A
.B _link
object draws a straight or L-shaped horizontal round ``pipe'' with
diameter equal to 80% of the
.I _baseHeight
of an enclosing
.BR _grid .
The properties of the object are defined by the options:

.RS 4n
.TP 4n
.I pos
sets both the position of the
.B _link
on the grid and its shape.
.B _link 
starts in the column and row on the 
.B _grid 
specified by first two numbers in the
.I pos
and spans the number of columns and rows set by the second two
numbers. The
.I alignment
value is used to decide the orientation of the link (links are always 
aligned at the center):
.I east
and
.I west
links are straight and going from left to right,
.I north
and
.I south
links are straight and going from far end of the grid to near end,
.I northeast,
.I northwest,
.I southeast
and
.I southwest
links are L-shaped and connect the corresponding points of the compass, 
i.e. a
.I northeast
link takes on the general shape of the Latin letter ``L''.
.TP 4n
.I string
sets the ``tag'' for the
.B _link
which will be displayed in the text window when the pointer is over the
link.
.RE


.RE
.TP 4n
\f3_pipe\f1 \f2pos\f1 \f3(\f1 [\f2metric-list\f1] [\f2color-list\f1] [\f2tag\f1] \f3)\f1
A
.B _pipe
object represent a set of cylinders, placed on top of each other and
oriented parallel to the base plane. The diameter of a
.B _pipe
is equal to 80% of
.IR _baseHeight .
The number of blocks is dependent on the number of
metric instances in the
.IR metric-list .
The colors in the
.I color-list
are assigned in turn to each cylinder in the
.BR _pipe .
The length of the
.B _pipe 
is defined by the
.IR _pipeLength .

.RS 4n
.TP 4n
.I pos
defines the position of the
.B _pipe
on the enclosing
.B _grid
and its orientation with
.I alignment
field used to define at which end of the pipe to stack the colored
cylinders. The cylinders are stacked at the corresponding point of the
compass and the pipe's direction is from the point of the compass
towards the center of the compass. Only 
.IR east ,
.IR west ,
.IR north ,
and
.I south
are valid values for the pipe's alignment.

.RE
The metrics, colors and label may be specified within the brackets in any
order.  Only the
.I metric-list
is mandatory.
.TP 4n
.I metric-list
A
.B _pipe
metric list contains a list of metric names and normalization values:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_metrics\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2metric\f1 \f2real\f1 [\f2metric\f1 \f2real\f1...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.TP 4n
.I color-list
A
.B _pipe
color list may be named color list that was defined earlier, or an unnamed
color list:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_colorList\f1 \f2name\f1
\f3_colorList\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2color\f1 [\f2color\f1...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.TP 4n
.I tag
A
.B _pipe
may have a ``tag'' for the filler block (unanimated block on the
``other'' end of the pipe) which will be displayed in the text window
when the pointer is over that end of the pipe.

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_pipeTag\f1 \f2name\f1|\f2string\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.RE
.TP 4n
\f3_stack\f1 [\f2options\f1] \f3(\f1 [\f2metric-list\f1] [\f2color-list\f1] [\f2label\f1] \f3)\f1
A
.B _stack
object represents a set of blocks placed vertically on top of each other.  The
number of blocks is dependent on the number of metric instances in the 
.IR metric-list .
The colors in the
.I color-list
are assigned to each block in the
.BR _stack .
By default, the height of the
.B _stack
will be the sum of the height of each block.  The
.I options
that may be passed to a 
.B _stack
object are:
.RS 4n
.TP 4n
.I pos
The position of the 
.B _stack
object within the current
.B _grid
object.
.TP 4n
\f3_show\f1|\f3_hide\f1
Is the base plane visible? Default is
.BR _show .
.TP 4n
\f3_utilmod\f1|\f3_fillmod\f1
Force the height of the stack to always be the maximum height.  This is achieved
by normalizing the height of each block
.RB ( _utilmod ),
or by adding a grey block to the top of the stack 
.RB ( _fillmod ).
.TP 4n
\f3_cube\f1|\f3_cylinder\f1
Set the shape of the blocks.  The default is
.BR _cube .
.RE
.RS 4n
.PP
The options must be specified in this order, although preceding options are
not required.  Therefore, this is legal:

.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
_stack 1 1 _north _utilmod ( ... )
.fi
.ft R
.in

The metrics, colors and label may be specified within the brackets in any
order.  Only the
.I metric-list
is mandatory.
.TP 4n
.I metric-list
A
.B _stack
metric list contains a list of metric names and normalization values:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_metrics\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2metric\f1 \f2real\f1 [\f2metric\f1 \f2real\f1...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.TP 4n
.I color-list
A
.B _stack
color list may be named color list that was defined earlier, or an unnamed
color list:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_colorList\f1 \f2name\f1
\f3_colorList\f1 \f3(\f1 \f2color\f1 [\f2color\f1...] \f3)\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.TP 4n
.I label
A
.B _fillmod
type
.B _stack
may have a label for the filler block:

.RS 4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f3_stackLabel\f1 \f2name\f1|\f2string\f1
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.RE
.TP 4n
\f3_xing\f1 \f2col\f1 \f2row\f1 \f2columns\f1 \f2rows\f1 \f2dir1\f1 ... \f2dir4\f1
A
.B _xing
is a special kind of link which is used to draw a pair of links which
cross each other. To convey the visual impression that the links do
not join, one of the links is drawn as a ``broken'' cylinder.
.I col
and
.I row
define the position on the enclosing grid.
.I columns
and
.I rows
define the size of the bounding box. The end points of the crossing
cylinders are placed exactly in the center of the corner cells of the
bounding box and four small cylinders or stubs are used to join the
perimeter of the bounding box with the end points on the crossing
cylinders. Four
.I dir
values define the orientation of the stubs, starting at the upper left
corner of the
.B _xing
and proceeding clockwise, such that respective stubs are used to join
the point of the compass with the center on the cell (see example).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
This simple example illustrates the use of parameters and different object
types:

.in 1i
.ft CW
.nf
pmview Version 2.1
# Use a lighter grey for the base planes
_baseColor rgbi:0.5/0.5/0.5

# Define colors for CPU object
_colorList cpu ( blue2 red2 yellow2 cyan2 green2 )

# The top grid object, but hide it from view
_grid _hide (

# Show the current load in a bar object
   _bar 0 0 (
       _baseLabel "Load averages over a\\n1, 5 and 15 minute interval"
       _metrics (
		kernel.all.load[1] 1 "1"
		kernel.all.load[5] 1 "5"
		kernel.all.load[15] 1 "15"
	)
	_colorList ( blue blue blue )
    )

# Add a label below the load bars
    _label 0 1 "Load"

# Change the color of the base plane for later objects
    _baseColor pink

# Show the CPU usage over all CPUs in a utilization stack
    _stack 2 0 _south _utilmod (
	_baseLabel "CPU Utilization over all CPUs"
	_metrics (
		kernel.all.cpu.user 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.sys 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.intr 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.wait.total 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.idle 1000
	)
	_colorList cpu
    )

# Add a label below the CPU stack
    _label 2 1 "CPU"

# Create a separate grid for links and pipes
    _marginWidth 1
    _marginDepth 1
    _gridSpace  12
    _grid 0 3 5 4 _hide (
	_pipeLength 12
	_baseHeight 12

	# Add  a pipe and a link with western orientation
	_pipe 0 0 west (
	    _pipeTag "West pipe"
	    _metrics (
		kernel.all.cpu.user 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.sys 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.idle 1000
	    )
	    _colorList cpu
	)

	_link 0 2 west "West link"

	# Add xing
	_xing 1 0 3 3 west east east west 

	# Add a link and a pipe with eastern orientation
	_pipe 4 0 east (
	    _pipeTag "East Pipe"
	    _metrics (
		kernel.all.cpu.user 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.sys 1000
		kernel.all.cpu.idle 1000
	    )
	    _colorList cpu
	)
	_link 4 2 east "East link"
    )
)
.fi
.ft R
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmview (1).
