'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH LOGIMPORT 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3LOGIMPORT\f1 \- introduction to the library for importing data and creating a PCP archive
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Performance Co-Pilot Log Import (LOGIMPORT) API is a library (and Perl wrapper)
that supports the creation of PCP archives from external sources of
performance data, either in the form of historical logs and spreadsheets
or from real-time sources that are
.B not
integrated as a Performance Metrics
Domain Agent (PMDA) under the control of
.BR pmcd (1).
.PP
The typical usage for LOGIMPORT would involve:
.IP \(bu 3n
An initial call to
.BR pmiStart (3).
.IP \(bu 3n
Optional calls to
.BR pmiSetHostname (3)
and/or
.BR pmiSetTimezone (3)
to set the hostname and timezone for the source of the performance data.
.IP \(bu 3n
One or more calls to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3)
to define performance metrics.
.IP \(bu 3n
One or more calls to
.BR pmiAddInstance (3)
to define instances associated with the metrics.
.IP \(bu 3n
Optional calls to
.BR pmiGetHandle (3)
to defined convenience handles for metric-instance pairs.
.IP \(bu 3n
A main loop in which performance data is injested and for each
sample time interval, the PCP archive record is constructed by calls
to
.BR pmiPutValue (3)
and/or
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
followed by a call to
.BR pmiWrite (3)
to flush all data and any associated new metadata
to the PCP archive.  Alternatively,
.BR pmiPutResult (3)
could be used to package and process all the data for one sample time
interval.
.IP \(bu 3n
Once the input source of data has been consumed, calling
.BR pmiEnd (3)
to complete the PCP archive creation and close all open files.
.PP
If new metrics and/or instances are discovered during the data
injestion, these can be added by subsequent calls to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3)
and/or
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
provided all the metrics and instances have been defined before
a call to
.BR pmiGetHandle (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3) or
.BR pmiPutResult (3)
that references those metrics and instances.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmiGetHandle (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiEnd (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiPutMark (3),
.BR pmiPutResult (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3),
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
.BR pmiSetHostname (3),
.BR pmiSetTimezone (3),
.BR pmiStart (3)
and
.BR pmiWrite (3).
