'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Max Matveev
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Aconex.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH MMV_LOOKUP_VALUE_DESC 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3mmv_lookup_value_desc\f1 - find a value in the Memory Mapped Value file
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/mmv_stats.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
pmAtomValue *mmv_lookup_value_desc(void *\fIaddr\fP, const char *\fImetric\fP, const\ char\ *\fIinst\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_mmv \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\f3mmv_lookup_value_desc\f1 searches for the value of the instance 
identified by the external instance name \f2inst\f1 of the metric
\f2metric\f1 in the \f3MMV\f1(5) file.
\f2addr\f1 is the address returned from \f3mmv_stats_init\f1().
.P
The pointer returned points to a pmAtomValue union, which is
defined as follows:
.P
.nf
    typedef union {
        __int32_t   l;      /* 32-bit signed */
        __uint32_t  ul;     /* 32-bit unsigned */
        __int64_t   ll;     /* 64-bit signed */
        __uint64_t  ull;    /* 64-bit unsigned */
        float       f;      /* 32-bit floating point */
        double      d;      /* 64-bit floating point */
        char         *cp;   /* char ptr */
	pmValueBlock *vbp;  /* pmValueBlock ptr */
    } pmAtomValue;
.fi
.P
MMV string values should be set using either of the
\f3mmv_set_string\f1 or \f3mmv_set_strlen\f1 routines.
.SH RETURNS
The function returns the address inside of the memory mapped region
on success or NULL on failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmv_stats_init (3),
.BR mmv_inc_value (3)
and
.BR mmv (5).
