'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013,2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Max Matveev.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Aconex.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH MMV_STATS_INIT 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3mmv_stats_init\f1,
\f3mmv_stats2_init\f1 - create and initialize Memory Mapped Value file
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ft 3
.sp
.br
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/mmv_stats.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
void *mmv_stats_init(const char *\fIname\fP, int \fIcluster\fP, mmv_stats_flags_t\ \fIflags\fP, const\ mmv_metric_t\ *\fIstats\fP, int\ \fInstats\fP, mmv_indom_t\ *\fIindoms\fP, int\ \fInindoms\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
void *mmv_stats2_init(const char *\fIname\fP, int \fIcluster\fP, mmv_stats_flags_t\ \fIflags\fP, const\ mmv_metric2_t\ *\fIstats2\fP, int\ \fInstats2\fP, mmv_indom2_t\ *\fIindoms2\fP, int\ \fInindoms2\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_mmv \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B Note: these functions are deprecated \- see mmv_stats_registry(3).
.P
\f3mmv_stats_init\f1 creates and initializes the content of the 
\f2MMV\f1(5) file, returning a handle that is used in subsequent
MMV API calls.
.P
\f3mmv_stats2_init\f1 is equivalent to \f3mmv_stats_init\f1 except
that it provides an option for longer metric and instance names.
.P
\f3mmv_stats_stop\f1 performs an orderly shutdown of the mapping
handle returned by an earlier initialization call.
.P
The file is created in the $PCP_TMP_DIR/mmv directory, \f2name\f1
argument is expected to be a basename of the file, not the full path.
The metadata content of the file does not change after the file has
been created. 
.P
The old file is removed unconditionally unless there was an error.
.P
\f2cluster\f1 is the preferred MMV PMDA cluster ID to be used for
the metrics originating from this call to \f3mmv_stats_init\f1.
The \f2flags\f1 provide additional control over the behaviour
of the MMV PMDA - e.g. use of MMV_FLAG_PROCESS will ensure values
are only exported when the instrumented application is running \-
this is verified on each request for new values.
.P
\f2stats\f1 is the array of \f3mmv_metric_t\f1 elements of length
\f2nstats\f1. Each element of the array describes one PCP metric.
.P
.nf
        typedef struct {
            char name[MMV_NAMEMAX];     /* Name of the metric */
            __uint32_t item;            /* Item component of PMID */
            mmv_metric_type_t type;     /* Type of the metric */
            mmv_metric_sem_t semantics; /* Semantics of the metric */
            pmUnits dimension;          /* Dimensions (TIME,SPACE,etc) */
            __uint32_t indom;           /* Instance domain identifier */
            char *shorttext;            /* Optional, one-line help */
            char *helptext;             /* Optional, full help text */
        } mmv_metric_t;
.fi
.P
\f2stats2\f1 is the array of \f3mmv_metric2_t\f1 elements of length
\f2nstats2\f1. Each element of the array describes one PCP metric,
the only difference to \f2stats\f1 is the lifting of the restriction
on name length (previously MMV_NAMEMAX, which is 64 bytes).
.P
.nf
        typedef struct {
            char *name;                 /* Name of the metric */
            __uint32_t item;            /* Item component of PMID */
            mmv_metric_type_t type;     /* Type of the metric */
            mmv_metric_sem_t semantics; /* Semantics of the metric */
            pmUnits dimension;          /* Dimensions (TIME,SPACE,etc) */
            __uint32_t indom;           /* Instance domain identifier */
            char *shorttext;            /* Optional, one-line help */
            char *helptext;             /* Optional, full help text */
        } mmv_metric2_t;
.fi
.P
If \f3indom\f1 is not zero and not PM_INDOM_NULL, then the metric has
multiple values and there must be a corresponding \f2indom\f1 entry
in the \f2indom\f1 list (uniquely identified by \f3serial\f1 number).
.P
The \f2stats\f1 and \f2stats2\f1 arrays cannot contain any elements which
have no name - this is considered an error and no metrics will be exported
in this case.
.P
\f2indoms\f1 is the array of \f3mmv_indom_t\f1 elements of length
\f2nindoms\f1. Each element of the array describes one PCP instance
domain.
.P
.nf
        typedef struct {
            __int32_t internal;
            char external[MMV_NAMEMAX];
        } mmv_instances_t;

        typedef struct {
            __uint32_t serial;           /* Unique serial number */
            __uint32_t count;            /* Number of instances */
            mmv_instances_t *instances;  /* Internal/external IDs */
            char *shorttext;             /* Short help text */
            char *helptext;              /* Long help text */
        } mmv_indom_t;
.fi
.P
\f2indoms2\f1 is the array of \f3mmv_indom2_t\f1 elements of length
\f2nindoms2\f1. Each element of the array describes one PCP instance
domain, and the only difference to \f2indoms\f1 is the lifting of the
restriction on external instance name lengths (previously MMV_NAMEMAX,
which is 64 bytes).
.P
.nf
        typedef struct {
            __int32_t internal;
            char *external;
        } mmv_instances2_t;

        typedef struct {
            __uint32_t serial;           /* Unique serial number */
            __uint32_t count;            /* Number of instances */
            mmv_instances2_t *instances; /* Internal/external IDs */
            char *shorttext;             /* Short help text */
            char *helptext;              /* Long help text */
        } mmv_indom2_t;
.fi
.P
.SH RETURN VALUES
These functions return the address of the memory mapped region on success.
On failure, NULL is returned and \f2errno\f1 is set to a value suitable
for decoding with
.BR strerror (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmv_stats_registry (3),
.BR mmv_lookup_value_desc (3),
.BR mmv_inc_value (3),
.BR strerror (3)
and
.BR mmv (5).
