'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMADDDERIVED 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmAddDerived\f1,
\f3pmAddDerivedMetric\f1  \- register a per-context derived metric name and definition
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
char *pmAddDerived(char *\fIname\fP, char *\fIexpr\fP);
.br
int pmAddDerivedMetric(char *\fIname\fP, char *\fIexpr\fP, char **\fIerrmsg\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CR
.ie t \f(CR\\$1\fR\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\fR\\$2
..
Derived metrics provide a way of extending the Performance Metrics
Name Space (PMNS) with new metrics defined at the PCP client-side using
expressions over the existing performance metrics.
.PP
The
.B pmAddDerived
and
.B pmAddDerivedMetric
routines may be used to create per-context derived metrics, and can
only be used after the current PMAPI context has been created with
.BR pmNewContext (3).
.PP
Per-context derived metrics are similar in all aspects except scope
to
global derived metrics.
The latter are defined across all PMAPI contexts and
are created with the associated
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
and
.BR pmRegisterLoadConfig (3)
routines.
.PP
The arguments to
.B pmAddDerived
are the
.I name
of the new derived metric and
.I expr
is an expression defining how the values of
.I name
should be computed.
.PP
.B pmAddDerivedMetric
is the exact functional equivalent to
.B pmAddDerived
except that it provides a simplified model of error handling, where
a formatted message is returned via the
.I errmsg
parameter.
.PP
Refer to the
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3)
man page for a complete description of the syntactic rules for
.IR name ,
the syntactic and semantic rules for
.IR expr ,
return values and the associated error reporting mechanisms,
and the expression evaluation rules.
.PP
Note that for per-context derived metrics, all syntactic and semantic
checks are performed at the time
.B pmAddDerived
or
.B pmAddDerivedMetric
is called.
This is different to global derived metrics where the semantic checks
are delayed until the metric is used in a specific PMAPI context.
.PP
There is no ``unregister''
method, so once registered a per-context derived metric persists for the life
of the PMAPI context, but it is destroyed as a side-effect of
.BR pmDestroyContext (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On success,
.B pmAddDerived
returns NULL.
.PP
If a syntactic error is found at the time of calling, the
value returned by
.B pmAddDerived
is a pointer into
.I expr
indicating
.B where
the error was found.
To identify
.B what
the error was, the application should call
.BR pmDerivedErrStr (3)
to retrieve the corresponding parser error message.
.PP
.B pmAddDerivedMetric
returns 0 and
.I errmsg
is undefined if the parsing is successful.
.PP
If the given
.I expr
does not conform to the required syntax
.B pmAddDerivedMetric
returns \-1 and a dynamically allocated error message string in
.IR errmsg .
The error message is terminated with a newline
and includes both the input
.I name
and
.IR expr ,
along with an indicator of the position at which the
error was detected.
e.g.
.br
.in +1i
Error: pmAddDerivedMetric("my.disk.rates", ...) syntax error
.br
.CR "\&4rat(disk.dev.read)"
.br
.CR "\&    ^"
.in -1i
.PP
The position indicator line may be followed by an additional
diagnostic line describing the nature of the error, when available.
.PP
In the case of an error, the caller is responsible for calling
.BR free (3)
to release the space allocated for
.IR errmsg .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmDerivedErrStr (3),
.BR pmDestroyContext (3),
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
