'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMADDPROFILE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmAddProfile\f1 \- add instance(s) to the current PMAPI instance profile
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmAddProfile(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int \fInuminst\fP, int *\fIinstlist\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The set of instances for performance metrics returned from a
.BR pmFetch (3)
call may be filtered or restricted using an instance profile.
There is one instance profile for each context the application
creates at the Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface 
.RB ( PMAPI (3)),
and each instance profile may include instances from one or more
instance domains (see
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)).
.PP
.B pmAddProfile
may be used to
add new instance specifications to the instance profile of the current
PMAPI context.
.PP
In the simplest variant, the list of instances identified by the
.I instlist
argument for the
.I indom
instance domain are added to the instance profile.
The list of instance
identifiers contains
.I numinst
values.
.PP
The
.I indom
value would normally be extracted from a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric, and the instances in
.I instlist
would typically be determined by calls to
.BR pmGetInDom (3)
or
.BR pmLookupInDom (3).
.PP
To select all instances in all instance domains, use

.in 1.0i
.nf
.ft CW
pmAddProfile(PM_INDOM_NULL, 0, (int *)0)
.ft
.fi
.in

This is the only case where
.I indom
may be equal to
.BR PM_INDOM_NULL .
If
.I numinst
is zero, or
.I instlist
is NULL, then all instances in
.I indom
are selected.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmDelProfile (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmGetInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupInDom (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmUseContext (3)
and
.BR pmWhichContext (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_PROFILESPEC\f1
.I indom
was
.B PM_INDOM_NULL
and
.I instlist
was not empty
.SH CAVEAT
It is possible to add non-existent instance domains and non-existent instances
to an instance profile.  None of the routines that use the instance profile
will ever issue an error if you do this.  The cost of checking, when checking
is possible, outweighs any benefits.
