'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2023 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMADDDERIVEDTEXT 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmAddDerivedText\f1 \- add help text for a derived metric
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmAddDerivedText(const char *\fIname\fP, int \fItype\fP, const char *\fItext\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Derived metrics provide a way of extending the Performance Metrics
Name Space (PMNS) with new metrics defined at the PCP client-side using
expressions over the existing performance metrics.
Global derived metrics are defined using
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3)
or
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
or
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
and per-context derived metrics are defined using
.BR pmAddDerived (3)
or
.BR pmAddDerivedMetric (3).
.PP
Once a derived metric has been defined,
.B pmAddDerivedText
may be used to associate the help
.I text
with the derived metric identified by
.IR name .
.PP
Help text may be a ``one line'' summary or a more verbose ``multi-line''
block of text, and
.I type
should be
.BR PM_TEXT_ONELINE
or
.B PM_TEXT_HELP
respectively.
To associate both styles of help text with a derived metric,
.B pmAddDerivedText
would need to be called twice with different values for
.IR type .
.PP
Once a particular
.I type
of help text has been associated with a derived metric it cannot
be deleted or redefined.
.PP
Applications using the
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
are able to retrieve help text for specific metrics using
.BR pmLookupText (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmAddDerivedText
returns zero on success, else an error code.
.PP
The return value
.BR PM_ERR_NAME
indicates
.I name
does not correspond to a previously defined derived metric.
.PP
Repeated calls for the same
.I name
and
.I type
will result a return value of
.BR PM_ERR_TEXT .
.PP
A return value of
.B PM_ERR_ARG
indicates that
.I type
is not one of the expected values.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmAddDerived (3),
.BR pmAddDerivedMetric (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
.BR pmLookupText (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
