'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMAFM 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmafm\f1,
\f3pmRecordSetup\f1,
\f3pmRecordAddHost\f1,
\f3pmRecordControl\f1 \- record mode support for PMAPI clients
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmafm.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
FILE *pmRecordSetup(const char *\fIfolio\fP, const char *\fIcreator\fP, int\ \fIreplay\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmRecordAddHost(const char *\fIhost\fP, int \fIisdefault\fP, pmRecordHost\ **\fIrhp\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmRecordControl(pmRecordHost *\fIrhp\fP, int \fIrequest\fP, const\ char\ *\fIoptions\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_gui
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines may be used to create a Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
archive ``on the fly'' to
support ``record mode'' services for PMAPI client applications.
.PP
Each record mode ``session'' involves one or more
PCP archive logs each created using a dedicated
.BR pmlogger (1)
process, with an overall Archive Folio format as understood by
.BR pmafm (1),
to name and collect all of the archive logs associated with
a single recording session.
.PP
The
.I pmRecordHost
structure is used to maintain state information between the
creator of the recording session and the associated
.BR pmlogger
process(es).  The structure is defined as:
.sp 0.5v
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.25i
typedef struct {
    FILE   *f_config;    /* caller writes pmlogger configuration here */
    int    fd_ipc;       /* IPC channel to pmlogger */
    char   *logfile;     /* full pathname for pmlogger error logfile */
    pid_t  pid;          /* process id for pmlogger */
    int    status;       /* exit status, \-1 if unknown */
} pmRecordHost;
.in -0.25i
.fi
.ft R
.PP
The routines are used in combination to create a recording session
as follows.
.IP 1. 4n
Call
.B pmRecordSetup
to establish a new recording session.  A new Archive Folio will be
created using the name
.IR folio ;
if the file or directory
.I folio
already exists, or the file
.I folio
cannot be created, this is an error.
The application that is creating the session is identified by
.I creator
(most often this would be the same as the global PMAPI application name,
as returned by
.BR pmGetProgname (3)).
If the application knows how to create its own configuration file to replay
the recorded session, then
.I replay
should be non-zero.
.RS
.PP
.B pmRecordSetup
returns a
.I stdio
stream onto
which the application should write the text of the required
replay configuration file, if any.
.RE
.IP 2.
For each
.I host
that is to be included in the recording session, call
.BR pmRecordAddHost .
A new
.I pmRecordHost
structure is returned via
.IR rhp .
It is assumed that
.BR pmcd (1)
is running on
.I host
as this is how
.BR pmlogger (1)
will retrieve the required performance metrics.
.RS
.PP
If this
.I host
is the default host for this recording session, then
.I isdefault
should be non-zero.  This will ensure that the corresponding archive
appears first in the PCP archive folio, and hence the tools used
to replay the archive folio will make the correct determination of the
archive associated with the default host.
At most one
.I host
per recording session may be nominated as the default host.
.PP
The calling application should
write the desired
.B pmlogger
configuration onto the
.I stdio
stream returned via the
.I f_config
field in the
.I pmRecordHost
structure.
.RE
.IP 3.
Optionally add arguments to the command line that will be used
to launch
.BR pmlogger (1)
by calling
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.BR PM_REC_SETARG .
The argument is passed via
.I options
and one call to
.B pmRecordControl
is required for each distinct argument.
.RS
.PP
An argument may be added for a particular
.B pmlogger
instance
identified by
.IR rhp ,
or if the
.I rhp
argument
is NULL the argument is added for all
.B pmlogger
instances that will be launched in the current recording session.
.PP
Independent of any calls to
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.BR PM_REC_SETARG ,
each
.B pmlogger
instance will automatically be launched with the following arguments:
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-l ,
.B \-x
and the basename for the PCP archive log.
.RE
.IP 4.
To commence the recording session, call
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.BR PM_REC_ON ,
and
.I rhp
must be NULL.
This will launch one
.BR pmlogger (1)
process for each host in the recording session,
and initialize the
.IR fd_ipc ,
.IR logfile ,
.I pid
and
.I status
fields in the associated
.I pmRecordHost
structure(s).
.IP 5.
To terminate a
.B pmlogger
instance
identified by
.IR rhp ,
call
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.BR PM_REC_OFF .
If the
.I rhp
argument to
.B pmRecordControl
is NULL, the termination request is broadcast to all
.B pmlogger
processes in the current recording session.
.RS
.PP
An informative dialog is generated directly by each
.B pmlogger
process and hence note the comments on the disposition of output from
.B pmlogger
below.
.PP
Alternatively,
.B pmlogger
can be started with options to limit the duration of logging, e.g. the
.B \-T
or
.B \-s
arguments, in which case there is no need to call
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.B PM_REC_OFF
and no dialog is generated.
.RE
.IP 6.
To display the current status of the
.B pmlogger
instance identified by
.IR rhp ,
call
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.BR PM_REC_STATUS .
If the
.I rhp
argument to
.B pmRecordControl
is NULL, the status request is broadcast to all
.B pmlogger
processes in the current recording session.
.RS
.PP
The display is generated directly by each
.B pmlogger
process and hence note the comments on the disposition of output from
.B pmlogger
below.
.RE
.IP 7.
To detach a
.B pmlogger
instance identified by
.IR rhp
and allow it to continue independent of
the application that launched the recording session, call
.B pmRecordControl
with a
.I request
of
.BR PM_REC_DETACH .
If the
.I rhp
argument to
.B pmRecordControl
is NULL, the detach request is broadcast to all
.B pmlogger
processes in the current recording session.
.RS
.PP
An informative dialog is generated directly by each
.B pmlogger
process and hence note the comments on the disposition of output from
.B pmlogger
below.
.RE
.PP
The calling application should not close any of the returned
.I stdio
streams; this will be done by
.B pmRecordControl
when recording is commenced.
.PP
Once
.B pmlogger
has been started for a recording session, then
.B pmlogger
will assume responsibility for any dialog with the user in the event
that the application that launched the recording session should
exit, particularly without terminating the recording session.
.PP
By default, information and dialogs from
.B pmlogger
will be displayed using
.BR pmquery (1)
on the assumption that most applications wishing to launch
a recording session are GUI-based.  In the event that
.B pmquery
fails to display the information (for example, because the
.B DISPLAY
environment variable is not set),
.B pmlogger
will write on its own
.I stderr
stream (\c
.B not
the
.I stderr
stream of the launching process);
the output will be assigned to the
.I XXXXXX.host.\fBlog\fP
file described in the FILES section below.
For convenience, the full pathname to this file is provided via the
.I logfile
field in the
.I pmRecordHost
structure.
.PP
If the
.I options
argument to
.B pmRecordControl
is not NULL, this string may be
used to pass additional arguments to
.BR pmquery (1)
in those cases where a dialog is to be displayed.  One use of this
capability would be to
provide a
.B \-geometry
string to control the placement of the dialog.
.PP
Premature termination of a launched
.B pmlogger
process may be determined using the
.I pmRecordHost
structure,
by calling
.BR select (2)
on the
.I fd_ipc
field
or polling the
.I status
field that will contain the termination status from
.BR waitpid (2)
if known, else \-1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmafm (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmquery (1)
and
.BR PMAPI (3).
.SH FILES
These routines create a number of files in the
.B "same directory"
as the
.I folio
file named in the call to
.BR pmRecordSetup .
In all cases, the ``XXXXXX'' component is the result of
calling
.BR mktemp (3).
.TP 10
.I XXXXXX
If
.I replay
is non-zero, this is the creator's replay configuration file, else
an empty control file, used to guarantee uniqueness.
.PD 0
.TP
.I folio
The PCP Archive Folio, suitable for use with
.BR pmafm (1).
.TP
.I XXXXXX.host.\fBconfig\fP
The
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration for each
.I host
\- if the same
.I host
is used in different calls to
.B pmRecordAddHost
within the same recording session
then one of the letters ``a'' through ``z'' will
be appended to the ``XXXXXX'' part of all associated file names to ensure
uniqueness.
.TP
.I XXXXXX.host.\fBlog\fP
.I stdout
and
.I stderr
for the
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance for each
.IR host .
.TP
.I XXXXXX.host.\fR{\fB0\fP,\fBmeta\fP,\fBindex\fP}
The files comprising a single PCP archive for each
.IR host .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD
.PP
.B pmRecordSetup
may return
.B NULL
in the event of an error.
Check
.I errno
for the real cause, but the value
.B EINVAL
typically means that the order of calls to these routines is
not correct (there is obvious state associated with the current
recording session that is maintained across calls to these routines).
For example
the following calls would produce this
.B EINVAL
error;
calling
.B pmRecordControl
before calling
.B pmRecordAddHost
at least once, or calling
.B pmRecordAddHost
before calling
.BR pmRecordSetup .
.PP
.B pmRecordControl
and
.B pmRecordAddHost
both return 0 on success, else a value less than 0 suitable for
decoding with
.BR pmErrStr (3)
on failure.
The value
.B \-EINVAL
has the same interpretation as
.I errno
being set to
.B EINVAL
as described above.
.PP
.B pmRecordControl
will return
.B PM_ERR_IPC
if the associated
.B pmlogger
process has already exited.
