'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMC 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMC 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMC 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMC 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMC "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3PMC\f1 \- library for managing groups of Performance Co-Pilot metrics
.SH "C++ SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmc/PMC.h>
.sp
CC ... \-lpcp_pmc \-lpcp 
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Performance Metrics Class
.RB ( PMC )
class library is a collection of C++ classes for managing a large set of
performance metrics from a variety of sources.  This library is built over
.BR PMAPI (3).
.PP
.SH "CONTAINER CLASSES"
Several generic container classes are used by all 
.B PMC
classes which provide vector
.RB ( PMC_Vector ),
list
.RB ( PMC_List )
and string
.RB ( PMC_String )
support.  These classes should be self explanatory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.I "src/libpcp_pmc/examples/fixed.c++"
Simple application that fetches a fixed set of metrics once.
.TP
.I "src/libpcp_pmc/examples/hotproc.c++"
Application used to demonstrate the dynamic instance domain support in
.BR PMC .
.B hotproc
displays the current interesting processes as exported by
.BR pmdahotproc (1)
in a 
.BR top (1)
like format.
.TP
.I "src/pmdumptext/pmdumptext.c++"
This value dumping application has been ported to use
.BR libpcp_pmc .
.TP
.I "qa/src/pmc_*.c++"
Various QA tests for each
.B PMC
class.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMC_Context (3),
.BR PMC_Desc (3),
.BR PMC_Group (3),
.BR PMC_Indom (3),
.BR PMC_Metric (3),
.BR PMC_Source (3),
.BR pmflush (3)
and
.BR pmprintf (3).
.PP
Additional information is contained in the web page
.I isms/pcp/doc/pcp/pmc.html
which is also at
.IR http://ptg.melbourne.sgi.com/pcp/pmc.html .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are generated using
.BR pmprintf (3)
but are not flushed. It is the responsibility of the user to call
.BR pmflush (3)
to output any messages.
.PP
Additional diagnostics may be activated by adding 
.B DBG_TRACE_PMC
to the global
.IR pmDebug .
