'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMCONNECTLOGGER 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmConnectLogger\f1 \- connect to a performance metrics logger control port
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
.sp
int __pmConnectLogger(const char *\fIhostname\fP, int \fIpid\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp 
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\fR\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\fR\\$2
..
Each instance of the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive logger program
.BR pmlogger (1)
supports a control port on which
.BR __pmControlLog (3)
requests are received, and responses sent.
Optionally, the
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance may be designated the ``primary'' logger.
.PP
.B __pmConnectLogger
may be used to establish a control port connection to the
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance identified by process id
.I pid
on the host
.IR hostname .
.PP
One special case is supported; for the reserved
.I pid
value of
.B PM_LOG_CONTROL_PORT
the requested connection is to the
control port for the ``primary'' logger, whatever its process
id might be.
.PP
On success,
.B __pmConnectLogger
returns a non-negative integer, that is a file descriptor that may be used
in subsequent communication with the
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance, e.g. for
.BR __pmControlLog (3).
.PP
As the control port to
.BR pmlogger (1)
is not mulitplexed, applications using
.B __pmConnectLogger
should use
.BR close (2)
to terminate the connection to
.BR pmlogger (1)
as soon as they have finished communicating.
.PP
If the application connects, and the
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance subsequently terminates, e.g. \c
because the associated
.BR pmcd (1)
instance is terminated, the application will have to explicitly
re-establish connection to a re-started
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance by calling
.B __pmConnectLogger
again.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR __pmControlLog (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_PERMISSION\f1
no permission to connect to the specified
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance
.IP \f3\-ECONNREFUSED\f1
the designated
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance does not exist
.IP \f3\-EEADDRINUSE\f1
the requested control port is already in use
