'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMCONTROLLOG 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmControlLog\f1 \- enable, disable or enquire about logging of performance
metrics
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int __pmControlLog(int \fIfd\fP, const pmResult *\fIrequest\fP, int\ \fIcontrol\fP, int\ \fIstate\fP, int\ \fIdelta\fP, pmResult\ **\fIstatus\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\fR\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\fR\\$2
..
.B __pmControlLog
may be used to enable or disable the archive logging for particular performance
metrics, as identified by the
.I request
parameter;
see
.BR pmFetch (3)
for an explanation of the
.CW pmResult
structure.
.PP
The application must have previously issued a call to
.BR __pmConnectLogger (3)
to establish a control-port connection
to the
.BR pmlogger (1)
instance to whom the control request is to be directed, and
.I fd
(the result from
.BR __pmConnectLogger (3))
identifies this connection.
.PP
Within
.IR request ,
only the details of the performance metrics and their associated
instances will be used, i.e.
the values of the metrics, if any, will be ignored.
.I request
would typically be constructed as the result of an earlier call to
.BR pmFetch (3).
For metrics with a singular value (having an instance domain of
.BR PM_INDOM_NULL )
the corresponding
.CW pmValueSet
should have the value one in the
.CW numval
field and
.B PM_IN_NULL
as the
.CW inst
field of the single
.CW pmValue
supplied.
If multiple explicit instances are to be logged, the
.CW numval
field of the
.CW pmValueSet
should contain the number of instances supplied and the
.CW inst
fields of the
.CW pmValue
structures should contain specific instance identifiers (which may not have the
reserved value
.BR PM_IN_NULL ).
.PP
If the
.CW numval
field within any of the
.CW pmValueSet
structures in
.I request
has a value of zero, it indicates that all available instances of the metric
should be used.  Enumeration of the instance domain is deferred until the
logger fetches the metric prior to writing it to the log, rather than being
performed when the
.B __pmControlLog
request is received.  This is useful for metrics with instance domains that
change over time.  It is an error to specify
.CW numval
equal to zero if the corresponding metric has a singular value (no instance
domain).
.PP
There are several sorts of logging control available, namely mandatory or
advisory, as defined by the
.I control
argument, and on, off or maybe as defined by the
.I state
argument. These different types of control may be used to ensure that some
performance metrics can be guaranteed to always be in the log, while others may
be dynamically enabled or disabled as determined by the level and type of
system activity.
.PP
The actual action to be performed is defined by the combination of
.I control
and
.I state
as follows.
If
.I control
is
.B PM_LOG_MANDATORY
and
.I state
is
.BR PM_LOG_ON ,
then logging is enabled.
If
.I control
is
.B PM_LOG_MANDATORY
and
.I state
is
.BR PM_LOG_OFF ,
then logging is disabled.
If
.I control
is
.B PM_LOG_MANDATORY
and
.I state
is
.BR PM_LOG_MAYBE ,
then subsequent advisory controls will be honored.  If the logging state prior
to the request was mandatory (on or off), the state is changed to advisory off.
If the logging state was already advisory (either on or off), it remains
unchanged.  If
.I control
is
.B PM_LOG_ADVISORY
and the last mandatory control for the metric was 
.BR PM_LOG_MAYBE ,
then logging is enabled or disabled as specified by the
.I state
argument, i.e. 
.B PM_LOG_ON
or
.BR PM_LOG_OFF .
When the arguments
.I state
and
.I control
specify a request to change the logging behavior, the 
argument
.I delta
defines the logging interval in milliseconds to be applied to all metrics and
instances identified in
.IR request .
.PP
The result argument
.I status
returns the current logging state for each of the nominated performance
metrics.  There is a 1:1 correspondence between the elements of
.I request
and
.IR status.
For metrics in
.I request
that have
.CW pmValueSet s
with
.CW numval
equal to zero, the corresponding
.CW pmValueSet
in
.IR result 
will contain a value for each available instance at the time of the call.  Each
metric value in
.I status
will have the current logging state encoded in it.  The detailed outcome of the
operation for each metric can be determined by comparing these values to that
requested via
.IR control ,
.I state
and
.IR delta .
.PP
Macros defined in
.B <pcp/impl.h>
may be used to extract the state and logging interval from the returned metric
values.
.B PMLC_GET_ON
returns true if logging is on, or false if it is off;
.B PMLC_GET_MAND
returns true if logging is mandatory, or false if it is advisory;
.B PMLC_GET_INLOG
returns true if the metric has been logged at least once, or false otherwise;
.B PMLC_GET_AVAIL
returns true if the metric was available from its source the last time it was
supposed to be logged, or false if it was unavailable; and
.B PMLC_GET_DELTA
returns the current logging interval for the metric (in milliseconds).
.B PMLC_MAX_DELTA
defines the greatest
.I delta 
that can be returned in an encoded metric value.
.PP
As a special case, when
.I control
is
.BR PM_LOG_ENQUIRE ,
.I state
and
.I delta
are ignored, and
.I status
returns the current logging state of the nominated performance metrics (this
variant makes no changes to the logging state).
.PP
If the value of the logging interval is 0, either for
.I delta
in a request to change state to
.BR PM_LOG_ON ,
or encoded in the value returned from
.BR PM_LOG_ENQUIRE ,
then this corresponds to the special ``once only'' logging of metrics
that appear once in the archive log, and are never logged again.
.PP
.B __pmControlLog
returns zero on success.
.SH NOTE
This routine is not thread-safe as there is no serialization on the
use of the communication channel between the sending of the request
and receiving the reply.
It is assumed that the caller is single-threaded,
which is true for the only current user of this routine, namely
.BR pmlc (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmFetch (3)
and
.BR __pmConnectLogger (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_TOOSMALL\f1
The number of metrics in
.I request
is less than one.
.IP \f3PM_ERR_VALUE\f1
One or more of the
.CW pmValueSet s
in
.I request
had
.CW numval
(the number of instances) less than one.
.IP \f3EINVAL\f1
An invalid combination of
.I control
and
.I state
was specified, or
.I delta
was negative.
