'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMCONVSCALE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmConvScale\f1 \- rescale a performance metric value
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmConvScale(int \fItype\fP, const pmAtomValue *\fIival\fP, const\ pmUnits\ *\fIiunit\fP, pmAtomValue\ *\fIoval\fP, const\ pmUnits\ *\fIounit\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
All performance metric values may be encoded in a
.CW pmAtomValue
union, defined as follows;
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
typedef union {
    __int32_t    l;     /* 32-bit signed */
    __uint32_t   ul;    /* 32-bit unsigned */
    __int64_t    ll;    /* 64-bit signed */
    __uint64_t   ull;   /* 64-bit unsigned */
    float        f;     /* 32-bit floating point */
    double       d;     /* 64-bit floating point */
    char         *cp;   /* char ptr */
    pmValueBlock *vbp;  /* pmValueBlock ptr */
} pmAtomValue;
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
The encoding of a performance metric's dimensionality and scale uses
a
.CW pmUnits
structure; see
.BR pmLookupDesc (3).
.PP
Given a performance metric value pointed to by
.I ival
multiply it by a scale factor and return the value in
.IR oval .
The scaling takes place from the units defined by
.I iunit
into the units defined by
.IR ounit .
Both input and output units must have the same dimensionality.
.PP
The performance metric type for both input and output values is determined by
.IR type ,
the value for which
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
.B pmConvScale
is most useful when values returned via
.BR pmFetch (3),
(and possibly extracted using
.BR pmExtractValue (3))
need to be normalized
into some canonical scale and units for the purposes of computation.
.PP
As a special case, if all components of the dimension are zero, then
this is treated as synonymous with a ``count'' dimension of one,
and so the ``count'' scale components determine the relative scaling.
This accommodates the case where performance metrics are
dimensionless, without special case handling on the part of the caller.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmAtomStr (3),
.BR pmExtractValue (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmPrintValue (3),
.BR pmTypeStr (3)
and
.BR pmUnitsStr (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
.B PM_ERR_CONV
.IP
.I iunit
and
.I ounit
have different dimensionality, or have inappropriate
.I type
.P
.B PM_ERR_UNIT
.IP
Inappropriate
.I iunit
or
.I ounit
parameter
