'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMCTIME 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMCTIME 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMCTIME 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMCTIME 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMCTIME "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmCtime\f1 \- format the date and time for a reporting timezone
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <time.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
char *pmCtime(const time_t *clock, char *buf)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmCtime
is very similar to
.BR ctime (3),
except the timezone used is the current ``reporting timezone'' (rather than the
default
.B TZ
environment variable scheme), and the result is returned into a
caller-declared buffer (rather than a private buffer).
.PP
Like
.BR ctime (3)
the time to be converted is passed via
.IR clock ,
and 
the result in
.I buf
is fixed width fields in the format:
.PP
.in +1i
Fri Sep 13 00:00:00 1986\en\e0
.PP
The result buffer
.I buf
must be at least 26 bytes long, and no attempt is made to check this.
.B pmCtime
returns
.I buf
as the value of the function.
.PP
The default current reporting timezone is as defined by the
.B TZ
environment variable, so
.B pmCtime
and
.BR ctime (3)
will initially produce similar encoding of the date and time.
.PP
Use
.BR pmNewZone (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3)
or
.BR pmUseZone (3)
to establish a new current reporting timezone that will effect
.B pmCtime
but not
.BR ctime (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ctime (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLocaltime (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3),
.BR pmNewZone (3)
and
.BR pmUseZone (3).
