'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Ken McDonell, 2014. All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAINTERFACEMOVED 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaInterfaceMoved\f1 \- reset internal state of a \f2pmdaInterface\f1 structure
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
void pmdaInterfaceMoved(pmdaInterface *\fIdispatch\fP)
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
After a call to either
.BR pmdaDaemon (3)
or
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
to initialize the
.B pmdaInterface
structure, if the caller needs to relocate or move the structure for
any reason then
.B pmdaInterfaceMoved
needs to be called with the new base address of the
.I pmdaInterface
routine as specified by
.IR dispatch .
.PP
.B pmdaInterfaceMoved
will re-establish the internal integrity of the
.I pmdaInterface
structure at the new location before any other routine in
.I libpcp_pmda
called.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using
.B PMDA_INTERFACE_2
or later.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3)
and
.BR pmdaDSO (3).
