'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDATRACE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmtracebegin\f1,
\f3pmtraceend\f1,
\f3pmtraceabort\f1,
\f3pmtracepoint\f1,
\f3pmtraceobs\f1,
\f3pmtracecounter\f1,
\f3pmtracestate\f1,
\f3pmtraceerrstr\f1 \- application-level performance instrumentation services
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/trace.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmtracebegin(const char *\fItag\fP);
int pmtraceend(const char *\fItag\fP);
int pmtraceabort(const char *\fItag\fP);
int pmtracepoint(const char *\fItag\fP);
int pmtraceobs(const char *\fItag\fP, double \fIvalue\fP);
int pmtracecounter(const char *\fItag\fP, double \fIvalue\fP);
char *pmtraceerrstr(int \fIcode\fP);
int pmtracestate(int \fIflags\fP);
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_trace
.ft 1
.SH "FORTRAN SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.nf
character*(*) \fItag\fP
integer \fIcode\fP
integer \fIflags\fP
integer \fIstate\fP
character*(*) \fIestr\fP
real*8 \fIvalue\fP
.fi
.sp
.nf
\fIcode\fP = pmtracebegin(\fItag\fP)
\fIcode\fP = pmtraceend(\fItag\fP)
\fIcode\fP = pmtraceabort(\fItag\fP)
\fIcode\fP = pmtracepoint(\fItag\fP)
\fIcode\fP = pmtraceobs(\fItag\fP, \fIvalue\fP)
\fIcode\fP = pmtracecounter(\fItag\fP, \fIvalue\fP)
pmtraceerrstr(\fIcode\fP, \fIestr\fP)
\fIstate\fP = pmtracestate(\fIflags\fP)
.fi
.sp
.nf
f77 ... \-lpcp_trace  \f1or\f3  f90 ... \-lpcp_trace
.fi
.ft 1
.SH "JAVA SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.nf
.sp
import sgi.pcp.trace;
.sp
.nf
int trace.pmtracebegin(String \fItag\fP);
int trace.pmtraceend(String \fItag\fP);
int trace.pmtraceabort(String \fItag\fP);
int trace.pmtracepoint(String \fItag\fP);
int trace.pmtraceobs(String \fItag\fP, double \fIvalue\fP);
int trace.pmtracecounter(String \fItag\fP, double \fIvalue\fP);
String trace.pmtraceerrstr(int \fIcode\fP);
int trace.pmtracestate(int \fIflags\fP);
.fi
.sp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The
.I pcp_trace
library functions provide a mechanism for identifying sections of a program
as transactions or events for use by the trace Performance Metrics Domain Agent
(refer to
.BR pmdatrace (1)
and
.BR PMDA (3)).
.PP
The monitoring of transactions using the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
infrastructure is initiated through a call to 
.BR pmtracebegin .
Time will be recorded from the end of each
.B pmtracebegin
call to the start of the following call to
.BR pmtraceend ,
where the same \f2tag\f1 identifier is used in both calls.
Following from this, no visible recording will occur until at least one call to 
.B pmtraceend
is made referencing a \f2tag\f1 previously used in a call to
.BR pmtracebegin .
.PP
A transaction which is currently in progress can be cancelled by calling
.BR pmtraceabort .
No transaction data gathered for that particular transaction will be exported,
although data from previous and subsequent successful transactions with that
.I tag
name are still exported.  This is most useful when an error condition
arises during transaction processing and the transaction does not run to
completion.
.PP
The \f2tag\f1 argument to 
.BR pmtracebegin ,
.B pmtraceend
and
.B pmtraceabort
is used to uniquely identify each transaction within the
.I pcp_trace
library and later by the trace PMDA as the instance domain identifiers for the
transaction performance metrics which it exports.
These routines are most useful when used around blocks of code which are
likely to be executed a number of times over some relatively long time
period (in a daemon process, for example).
.PP
.B pmtracebegin
has two distinct roles \- firstly as the initiator of a new transaction,
and secondly as a mechanism for setting a new start time.
Similarly,
.B pmtraceend
is used to register a new \f2tag\f1 and its initial state with the trace
PMDA, or alternatively to update the statistics which the PMDA currently
associates with the given \f2tag\f1.
.PP
A second form of program instrumentation can be obtained from
.BR pmtracepoint .
This is a simpler form of monitoring as it exports only the number of times
that a particular point in a program has been passed.  This differs to the
transaction monitoring offered by
.B pmtracebegin
and
.BR pmtraceend ,
which exports a running count of successful transaction completions as well as
statistics on the time interval between the start and end points of each
transaction.
This function is most useful when start and end points are not well defined.
Examples of this would be when the code branches in such a way that a transaction
cannot be clearly identified, or when processing does not follow a transactional
model, or the desired instrumentation is akin to event rates rather than event
service times.
.PP
The
.BR pmtraceobs
and
.BR pmtracecounter
functions have similar semantics to
.BR pmtracepoint ,
but also allow an arbitrary numeric \f2value\f1 to be passed to the trace
PMDA.
The most recent \f2value\f1 for each \f2tag\f1 is then immediately available
from the PMDA.  The only difference between
.BR pmtraceobs
and
.BR pmtracecounter
is that the value exported via
.BR pmtracecounter
is assumed to be a monotonically increasing counter value (e.g. the number
of bytes read from a socket), whereas the value exported via
.BR pmtraceobs
can be any value at all.
.PP
.B pmtracestate
allows the application to set state \f2flags\f1 which are honoured by
subsequent calls to the \f2pcp_trace\f1 library routines.
There are currently two types of flag \- debugging flags and the asynchronous
protocol flag.  A single call may specify a number of \f2flags\f1 together,
combined using a (bitwise) logical OR operation, and overrides the previous
state setting.
.PP
The debugging flags to
.B pmtracestate
cause \f2pcp_trace\f1 to print diagnostic messages
on the standard output stream at important processing points.
The default protocol used between the trace PMDA and individual \f2pcp_trace\f1
client applications is a synchronous protocol, which allows for dropped
connections to be reestablished at a later stage should this become possible.
An asynchronous protocol is also available which does not provide the
reconnection capability, but which does away with much of the overhead
inherent in synchronous communication.
This behaviour can be toggled using the
.B pmtracestate
call, but must be called before other calls to the library.  This
differs to the debugging state behaviour, which can be altered at any time.
.B pmtracestate
returns the previous state (setting prior to being called).
.PP
The following table describes each of the
.B pmtracestate
\f2flags\f1 - examples of the use of these flags in each supported language are
given in the demo applications (refer to the ``FILES'' section below).
.TS
box,center;
cf(R) | cf(R)
lf(CW) | lf(R).
State Flags	Semantics
_
0  NONE	Synchronous PDUs and no diagnostics (default)
1  API	Shows processing just below the API (debug)
2  COMMS	Shows network-related activity (debug)
4  PDU	Shows app<->PMDA IPC traffic (debug)
8  PDUBUF	Shows internal IPC buffer management (debug)
16 NOAGENT	No PMDA communications at all (debug)
32 ASYNC	Use the asynchronous PDU protocol (control)
.TE
.PP
Should any of the
.I pcp_trace
library functions return a negative value,
an error has occurred.  This can be diagnosed further using the
.B pmtraceerrstr
routine, which takes the negative return value as its \f2code\f1 argument,
and in the C-callable interface returns a pointer to the associated error
message.
This points into a static error table, and should therefore not be passed to
.BR free (3).
The Fortran-callable interface has a slightly different syntax, requiring the
destination character array to be passed in as the second argument.
The Java-callable interface returns a UTF-8 string, created using the JNI
(Java Native Interface) routine
.BR NewStringUTF .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The
.I pcp_trace
routines communicate with the trace PMDA via a socket connection, which by
default uses TCP/IP port number 4323.  This can be over-ridden by setting
\f3PCP_TRACE_PORT\f1 to a different port number when the application is
started.  The host where the trace PMDA is running is by default the
localhost, but this can be changed using \f3PCP_TRACE_HOST\f1.
When attempting to connect to a remote trace PMDA, after some specified time
interval has elapsed, the connection attempt will be aborted and an error
status will be returned.  The default timeout interval is 3 seconds, and this
can be modified by setting \f3PCP_TRACE_TIMEOUT\f1 in the environment to a
real number of seconds for the desired timeout.  This is most useful in cases
where the remote host is at the end of a slow network, requiring longer
latencies to establish the connection correctly.
.SH NOTES
The \f2pcp_trace\f1 Java class interface has been developed and verified using
version 1.1 of the Java Native Interface (JNI) specification.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
.B $PCP_DEMOS_DIR/trace/*.c
Sample C programs and source for
.BR pmtrace (1).
Use
.BR make (1)
to build these programs.
.TP
.B $PCP_DEMOS_DIR/trace/fapp1.f
Sample Fortran program.
Call `make fortran77' or `make fortran90' to build this program.
.TP
.B $PCP_DEMOS_DIR/trace/japp1.java
Sample Java program.
`make java' builds the java class file.
.TP
.B /usr/java/classes/sgi/pcp/trace.java
Java trace class definition.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.IR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B file:$PCP_DOC_DIR/Tutorial/trace.html,
.B pcp.man.tutorial,
Provided the,
.BR make (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmdatrace (1),
.BR pmprobe (1),
.BR pmtrace (1),
Relevant information is also available from the on-line PCP Tutorial,
subsystem from the PCP images has been installed, access the URL
and
from your web browser.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A negative return value from a \f2pcp_trace\f1 function indicates that an
error has occurred \- if this is the case, the return value can be passed
to 
.B pmtraceerrstr
to obtain the associated error message.
.PP
Success is indicated by a return value of zero.
.PP
.B pmtracestate
also returns an integer representing the state \f2flags\f1 which were set
prior to the call.
.SH CAVEAT
.P
Applications that use
.BR gethostbyname (3)
should exercise caution because the static fields in
.I "struct hostent"
may not be preserved across some
.I pcp_trace
calls.
In particular,
.BR pmtracebegin ,
.BR pmtraceend ,
.BR pmtracepoint ,
.BR pmtracecounter ,
and
.B pmtraceobs
may all call
.BR gethostbyname (3)
internally.
