'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAROOTCONNECT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaRootConnect\f1,
\f3pmdaRootShutdown\f1,
\f3pmdaRootContainerHostName\f1,
\f3pmdaRootContainerProcessID\f1,
\f3pmdaRootContainerCGroupName\f1,
\f3pmdaRootProcessStart\f1,
\f3pmdaRootProcessWait\f1,
\f3pmdaRootProcessTerminate\f1 \- privileged PCP collector services
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootConnect(void);
.br
.ti -8n
void pmdaRootShutdown(int \fIfd\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootContainerHostName(int \fIfd\fP, char *\fIname\fP, int \fInamelen\fP, char *\fIbuffer\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootContainerProcessID(int \fIfd\fP, char *\fIname\fP, int \fInamelen\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootContainerCGroupName(int \fIfd\fP, char *\fIname\fP, int \fInamelen\fP, char *\fIbuffer\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootProcessStart(int \fIfd\fP, int \fIipctype\fP, char *\fIlabel\fP, int \fIlabellen\fP, const char *\fIargs\fP, int \fIargslen\fP, int *\fIpid\fP, int *\fIinfd\fP, int *\fIoutfd\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootProcessWait(int \fIfd\fP, int \fIpid\fP, int *\fIstatus\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaRootProcessTerminate(int \fIfd\fP, int \fIpid\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaRootConnect
initializes an IPC channel between a PCP collector process \- either a
.BR PMDA (3)
or
.BR pmcd (1)
itself \- and the
.BR pmdaroot (1)
server.
.PP
On success, the return value from
.B pmdaRootConnect
is a
.BR unix (7)
domain socket file descriptor, which can be subsequently passed to
each of the other APIs described here.
This channel can be used to perform limited privilege escalation
for specific scenarios needed by PCP collector services.
The channel can be deactivated using the
.B pmdaRootShutdown
interface.
.SH CONTAINERS
Several interfaces are provided for access to the container facilities
of modern Linux distributions, as needed by various agents accessing
kernel features related to containers.
.PP
.B pmdaRootContainerHostName
allows lookup of the current hostname for a named container on behalf
of an unprivileged process, via the
.BR setns (3)
system call on Linux.
On success, the hostname is returned in the supplied
.BR buffer ,
of size
.B buflen
and the return value indicates the length of the hostname.
.PP
.B pmdaRootContainerProcessID
performs a
.I name
to process identifier translation \- on success, the return value
is the identifier of the first process started (process 1) in the
named container.
.PP
.B pmdaRootContainerCGroupName
fills the supplied
.I buffer
with the engine-specific names of kernel control groups that have
been used to build the container identified
by
.IR name .
When successful, the return value indicates the length of the cgroup
name resolved for the container.
.PP
The
.I name
of the container is interpreted by
.BR pmdaroot (1),
which attempts to match up the specified name with one of the
implementations of containers that it is aware of.
Hence, the
.I name
argument is potentially interpreted differently, depending on the
installed container engine, as determined internally by
.BR pmdaroot ).
.PP
In the case of the Docker container engine, for example, a valid
container name can be the unique hash identifier, the human-readable
name, or any unique identifier substring. This is the algorithm used
by the Docker client tools themselves.
.SH PROCESSES
A second set of interfaces are provided allowing the collector system
to start privileged child processes.
In particular, these are used by
.BR pmcd (1)
so that it can start privileged PMDAs even when it is running under
an unprivileged account itself.
.PP
These interfaces allow processes to be started (\c
.BR pmdaRootProcessStart ),
reaped upon completion (\c
.BR pmdaRootProcessWait ),
and forcibly terminated through use of signals (\c
.BR pmdaRootProcessTerminate ).
At this stage, they are intended only for use by
.B pmcd
itself and as such are described here only for completeness.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All
.B pmdaRoot
interfaces will return negative status codes suitable for passing
to
.BR pmErrStr_r (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmdaroot (1),
.BR pmErrStr_r (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR setns (3)
and
.BR unix (7).
