'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDATEXT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaText\f1 \- extract metric help text for a PMDA
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
int pmdaText(int \fIident\fP, int \fItype\fP, char **\fIbuffer\fP, pmdaExt *\fIpmda\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.B pmdaText
uses the standard
.BR PMDA (3)
data structures to return the help text for metric
.I ident
in
.IR buffer .
The help text must be located in help text files
created with
.BR newhelp (1),
and the associated files are automatically opened by
.BR pmdaInit (3).
.PP
The path to the (basename of the) help text files can be set in the calls to
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or
.BR pmdaDaemon (3)
and overridden by the 
.B \-h
command line option in
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3).
.PP
The encoding of
.I ident
follows the internal scheme used below the routines
.BR pmLookupText (3)
and
.BR pmLookupInDomText (3),
namely
.I ident
encodes either a metric identifier or an instance domain
identifier, according to the value
of
.IR type .
.PP
The
.I type
argument is a bit mask that encodes the interpretation of
.I ident
and the requested form of help text,
as follows:
either
.B PM_TEXT_PMID
if
.I ident
is a metric identifier, or
.B PM_TEXT_INDOM
if
.I ident
is an instance domain identifier, plus
either
.B PM_TEXT_ONELINE
for the one line help text or
.B PM_TEXT_HELP
for the full help text.
.PP
The
.I buffer
is managed internally (usually it is cached),
and it should
.B not
be released or freed by the caller of
.BR pmdaText .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the requested help text
could not be obtained, 
.B pmdaText
will return
.BR PM_ERR_TEXT .
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR newhelp (1),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3),
.BR pmdaInit (3),
.BR pmLookupInDomText (3)
and
.BR pmLookupText (3).
