'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDANAME 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaName\f1 \- translate a PMID to a set of dynamic performance metric names
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
int pmdaName(pmID \fIpmid\fP, char ***\fInameset\fP, pmdaExt *\fIpmda\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.BR pmdaName
is the generic callback for
translating a
.I pmid
into one or more dynamic metric names (\c
.IR nameset ).
.PP
Because implementing dynamic performance metrics requires specific
PMDA support, and the facility is an optional component of a PMDA (most
PMDAs do
.B not
support dynamic performance metrics),
.B pmdaName
is a skeleton implementation that returns
.BR PM_ERR_NAME .
.PP
A PMDA that supports dynamic performance metrics will provide a private
callback that replaces
.B pmdaName
(by assignment to
.I version.four.name
of the
.I pmdaInterface
structure)
and implements the translation from a
.I pmid
to a set of dynamic performance metric names returned via
.IR nameset .
The behaviour, return values and memory allocation rules for
.I nameset
are the same as for
.BR pmNameAll (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B 
pmdaName
returns
.B PM_ERR_PMID
if the name is not recognized or cannot be translated,
otherwise the number of metric names found (most commonly 1).
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_4 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3),
.BR pmdaMain (3),
.BR pmNameAll (3)
and
.BR pmNameID (3).
