'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Red Hat.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDALABEL 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaLabel\f1,
\f3pmdaSetLabelCallBack\f1 \- fill pmdaLabelSet structures with metric labels
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmdaLabel(int \fIident\fP, int \fItype\fP, pmLabelSet **\fIsets\fP, pmdaExt *\fIpmda\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaSetLabelCallBack(pmdaInterface *\fIdispatch\fP, pmdaLabelCallBack\ \fIcallback\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.B pmdaLabel
uses the standard
.BR PMDA (3)
data structures to return the labels for performance domain, instance domain,
metric or individual instances in "JSONB" format in the given
.I sets
data structure.
.PP
The
.I type
argument determines the interpretation of
.I ident
and the requested form of label,
as follows:
.TP 4n
.B PM_LABEL_DOMAIN
when
.I ident
is a PMDA domain identifier,
.TP 4n
.B PM_LABEL_CLUSTER
when
.I ident
is a metric identifier and labels for the cluster containing that
metric are being requested.
.TP 4n
.B PM_LABEL_ITEM
when
.I ident
is a metric identifier,
.TP 4n
.B PM_LABEL_INDOM
when
.I ident
is an instance domain identifier, or
.TP 4n
.B PM_LABEL_INSTANCES
when
.I ident
is a metric identifier and labels for all instances of that
metric are being requested.
.PP
The label
.I sets
pointer must be initialised to NULL before calling
.B pmdaLabel
and space is only to be allocated when labels are present and returned.
In this case, the return code must indicate the number of label
.I sets
that have been allocated.
This will only ever be greater than one in the 
.B PM_LABEL_INSTANCES
case.
.PP
This is one of the few generic callbacks in
.I libpcp_pmda
(see
.BR PMDA (3))
that is incomplete, requiring
a further
.B pmdaLabelCallBack
method of its own.
The additional callback should be registered using
.B pmdaSetLabelCallBack
and the
.B pmdaLabelCallBack
method has the following prototype:
.nf
.ft CW
.ps -1
int func(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, unsigned int \fIinst\fP, pmLabelSet **\fIset\fP)
.ps
.ft
.fi
.PP
The purpose of the
.B pmdaLabelCallBack
routine is to return the label(s) for an individual instance
.I inst
of a given instance domain,
.IR indom .
Its successful return code differs significantly to
.BR pmdaLabel ,
as described below.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On success
.B pmdaLabel
returns the number of label
.I sets
created.
This is usually zero or one, except in the case of
.B PM_LABEL_INSTANCES
where more than one label
.I sets
will often be returned, one for each instance of the requested metric.
.PP
By contrast, on success of the
.B pmdaLabelCallBack
routine the number of labels successfully added to the provided
labelset pointer must be returned (and not the total number of label
.IR sets ).
.PP
If labels for the requested entity could not be obtained due to a
catastrophic failure, such as an out of memory condition, these
routines will return a negative error code.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_7
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3),
.BR pmdaInit (3)
and
.BR pmLookupLabels (3).
