'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Nathan Scott.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAEVENTCLIENT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
.ad l
\f3pmdaEventNewClient\f1,
\f3pmdaEventEndClient\f1,
\f3pmdaEventClients\f1 \- client context tracking interfaces for event queues
.br
.ad
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.nf
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
#include <pcp/impl.h>
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.fi
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmdaEventNewClient(int \fIcontext\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaEventEndClient(int \fIcontext\fP);
.br
.ti -8n
int pmdaEventClients(pmAtomValue *\fIavp\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
A Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) that exports event records
needs to track which clients are connected to it, in order that it can
track which events have been sent to which clients so far.
Only once an event has been sent to all monitoring tools that registered
an interest can the event be discarded and any memory reclaimed.
.PP
The
.BR PMDA (3)
library provides callback routines for PMDA developers to provide custom
handling of client connections and disconnections.
If the PMDA is making use of the event queueing mechanism provided by
.BR pmdaEventNewQueue (3)
and friends, client connections and disconnections must be tracked via
calls to
.B pmdaEventNewClient
and
.B pmdaEventEndClient
respectively.
This allows the library to keep track of when events can be discarded
from a queue, for example, for the
.I context
specified.
This parameter is passed into the e_endCallBack function directly,
and for other callback functions is available via the e_context field
of the pmdaExt structure.
Additionally, it can be queried at any time using
.BR pmdaGetContext (3).
.PP
Sometimes it is useful for the PMDA to export a metric indicating the
current count of attached clients \- this is available using the
.B pmdaEventClients
routine, which will fill in the
.I avp
pmAtomValue structure on behalf of a PMDA fetch callback routine.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmdaEventNewArray (3),
.BR pmdaEventNewQueue (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3)
and
.BR pmEventFlagsStr (3).
