'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAPMID 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaPMID\f1 \- translate a dynamic performance metric name into a PMID
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
int pmdaPMID(char *\fIname\fP, pmID *\fIpmid\fP, pmdaExt *\fIpmda\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.BR pmdaPMID
is the generic callback for translating a dynamic metric
.I name
into a PMID (\c
.IR pmid ).
.PP
Because implementing dynamic performance metrics requires specific
PMDA support, and the facility is an optional component of a PMDA (most
PMDAs do
.B not
support dynamic performance metrics),
.B pmdaPMID
is a skeleton implementation that returns
.BR PM_ERR_NAME .
.PP
A PMDA that supports dynamic performance metrics will provide a private
callback that replaces
.B pmdaPMID
(by assignment to
.I version.four.pmid
of the
.I pmdaInterface
structure)
and implements the translation from a dynamic performance metric
.I name
into the associated
.IR pmid .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmdaPMID
returns
.B PM_ERR_NAME
if the name is not recognized or cannot be translated, else returns 0.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_4 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3),
.BR pmdaMain (3)
and
.BR pmLookupName (3).
