'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Red Hat, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDASENDERROR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaSendError\f1
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
void pmdaSendError(pmdaInterface *\fIdispatch\fP, int \fIerr\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "PYTHON SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
from pcp.pmda import PMDA
.br
PMDA.pmda_notready()
.br
PMDA.pmda_ready()
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
this routine allows a PMDA to send an error PDU to PMCD.
There is presently only one use for this - so the PMDA can inform PMCD
that it is ready (or not ready) to process requests.
.PP
The protocol details are described in 
.BR pmcd (1)
and
.BR PMDA (3),
but basically if a PMDA starts in the
.I notready
state (as may be specified in
.BR pmcd.conf ,
see
.BR pmcd (1))
then PMCD will not send it any requests until the PMDA sends an
.B PM_ERR_PMDAREADY
error PDU using this function.
This is used by a PMDA that may have a long startup time, e.g. to process a
large configuration file or similar.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmcd (1),
and
.BR pmdaprometheus (1).
