'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDACONNECT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaConnect\f1 \- establish a connection between a daemon PMDA and PMCD
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
void pmdaConnect(pmdaInterface *\fIdispatch\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaConnect
initializes an IPC channel between a
.BR PMDA (3)
and the 
.BR pmcd (1)
process on the local host.  The type of the connection is dependent on the 
.I e_io
field of the
.B pmdaExt
structure:
.TP 15
.B pmdaPipe
Use 
.BR stdin / stdout
to communicate; assumes this is a pipe created by
.B pmcd
before the
.BR PMDA (3)
was launched.
.TP
.B pmdaInet
Assume
.BR pmcd (1)
will establish a connection to an IPv4 internet domain socket set up by the
.BR PMDA (3).
The name or number of the port must be specified in the 
.I e_sockname
or
.I e_port
fields of the
.B pmdaExt
structure, respectively.
.TP
.B pmdaIPv6
Assume
.BR pmcd (1)
will establish a connection to an IPv6 internet domain socket set up by the
.BR PMDA (3).
The name or number of the port must be specified in the 
.I e_sockname
or
.I e_port
fields of the
.B pmdaExt
structure, respectively.
.TP
.B pmdaUnix
Assume
.BR pmcd (1)
will establish a connection to a unix domain socket set up by the
.BR PMDA (3).
The port number must be specified in the 
.I e_port
field of the 
.B pmdaExt structure.
.TP
.B pmdaUnknown
The initial value of
.I e_io
which defaults to using 
.BR stdin / stdout .
.PP
The relevant
.B pmdaExt
fields are initialized by
.BR pmdaDaemon (3)
and set by 
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3)
or
.BR pmdaGetOptions (3)
so most PMDAs should not need to access or modify them.
.PP
Traditionally most PMDAs have called
.B pmdaConnect
after calls to
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaGetOptions (3)
(or
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3))
and
.BR pmdaInit (3).
If the PMDA requires significant processing at startup to identify
the available metrics and/or instance domains before
.BR pmdaInit (3)
can be called, then it risks timing out during the handshake protocol that
starts as soon as
.BR pmcd (1)
launches the PMDA and does not conclude until 
.B pmdaConnect
is called.
In this case, it is advisable to move the
.B pmdaConnect
call, so that it comes
.I after
the call to
.BR pmdaGetOptions (3)
(or
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3))
and
.I before
the call to
.BR pmdaInit (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmdaConnect
will log the type of connection made to 
.BR pmcd (1)
if the
.BR PMAPI (3)
debug control variable
.RB ( pmDebug )
has the
.B DBG_TRACE_LIBPMDA
flag set.
.PP
If an error occurs that is unrecoverable,
.I dispatch->status
is set to a value less than 0, otherwise it is zero or positive.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_INTERFACE_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3),
.BR pmdaGetOptions (3)
and
.BR pmdaInit (3).
