'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAGETOPT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaGetOpt\f1 \- get options from argument vector, trapping generic PMDA options
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmdaGetOpt(int \fIargc\fP, char *const *\fIargv\fP, const\ char\ *\fIoptstring\fP, pmdaInterface\ *\fIdispatch\fP, int\ *\fIerr\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is a wrapper for
.BR getopt (3).
The behavior of the function is identical except that certain options are
assumed to have a predefined behavior which initializes several fields in the
.B pmdaInterface
structure.
.PP
The options that
.B pmdaGetOpt
will trap are:
.TP 15
.BI \-D trace
Set the 
.BR PMAPI (3)
debug control variable
.RB ( pmDebug )
to 
.IR trace . 
Used for controlling levels of trace output while debugging.
.TP
.BI \-d domain
Set the 
.I domain
number of this agent.
.TP
.BI \-h helpfile
Obtain the help text (see
.BR pmdaText (3))
for the metrics from this file rather than from the path specified with
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.TP
.BI \-i port
Expect PMCD to connect on inet 
.I port
(number or name).
.TP
.BI \-l logfile
Redirect diagnostics and trace output to 
.IR logfile .
.TP
.B \-p
Expect PMCD to supply stdin/stdout pipe.
.TP
.BI \-u socket
Expect PMCD to connect on unix domain 
.IR socket .
.PP
Only one of 
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-p 
and
.B \-u
may be specified.  If none of these three options is given, a pipe 
.RB ( \-p )
is assumed.  When these options are encountered by
.BR pmdaGetOpt ,
the option is processed and the next option is examined.  Therefore,
.B pmdaGetOpt
will only return when an option other than those listed above is found, or the
end of the list is reached.  The returned value will be the argument or
EOF, respectively.
.PP
A PMDA can control which of these options the program will accept with the
.I optstring
argument.  To accept all the options, the PMDA should call 
.B pmdaGetOpt
with the option string "D:d:h:i:l:pu:".  Any PMDA specific options should be 
added to this string in the style of
.BR getopt (3), 
and returned by
.B pmdaGetOpt
if encountered.  However, the PMDA cannot reuse any of the options specified
above.
.PP
.B pmdaGetOpt
takes a pointer to an int,
.IR err ,
which is used as an error count.  This variable should be initialized to zero
before 
.B pmdaGetOpt 
is first called, and tested when
.B pmdaGetOpt
returns EOF.
.PP
.B pmdaGetOpt
does not modify
.I argc
or
.IR argv .
.SH EXAMPLE
A PMDA which takes the additional argument 
.B \-n
and does not use
.B pmDebug 
might call 
.B pmdaGetOpt
like this:
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
.in +0.5i
    pmdaInterface dispatch;
    int           err = 0;
    int           c = 0;

    while ((c = pmdaGetOpt(argv, argc, "d:h:i:l:pu:n:", 
                           dispatch &err)) != EOF) {
        /* process argument 'n', may use optarg etc. */
    }

    if (err)
        usage(argv[0]);
.in
.fi
.PP
The global variables used by
.B getopt (3)
may be used by the caller of
.B pmdaGetOpt
within the argument parsing loop.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmdaGetOpt
will display the same error messages as 
.BR getopt .
.SH CAVEAT
The options 
.BR \-D ,
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-p
and
.B \-u
cannot be reused for other purposes by the PMDA.
.PP
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_INTERFACE_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmdbg (1),
.BR getopt (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
and
.BR pmdaText (3).
