'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAINSTANCE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaInstance\f1 \- return instance descriptions for a PMDA
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmdaInstance(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int \fIinst\fP, char *\fIname\fP, pmInResult\ **\fIresult\fP, pmdaExt\ *\fIpmda\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaInstance
uses the standard
.BR PMDA (3)
data structures to return information concerning the instance domain
.IR indom .
.PP
The
.I result
structure is constructed by
.B pmdaInstance
and will contain one or more instance names and/or identifiers as specified by
the 
.I inst
and
.I name
arguments.
.PP
If 
.I inst
has the value 
.B PM_IN_NULL
and 
.I name
is a null string,
.I result
will contain all the instances names and identifiers in the instance domain.
.PP
If
.I inst
is 
.B PM_IN_NULL
but
.I name
is the name of an instance in the instance domain
.IR indom ,
then
.I result
will contain the instance identifier for instance
.IR name .
Note that if 
.I name 
contains no spaces, partial matching up to the first space in the
instance name is performed, i.e. 
.RB `` 1 ''
will match instance name 
.RB `` 1
.BR minute ''.
If 
.I name
contains an embedded space, then no partial matching is performed and
.I name
should match one of the instance names exactly.
.PP
If 
.I name
is a null string but
.I inst
is an instance identifier in the instance domain
.IR indom ,
then
.I result
will contain the name for instance
.IR inst .
The
.I result
structure is allocated with
.BR malloc (3)
and should be released by the caller with
.BR free (3).
.SH MULTI-DIMENSIONAL INSTANCE NAMING
Further to the above description of
.IR name ,
the set of rules describing external instance names is provided
in the
.BR pmdaCacheStore (3)
manual page.
.PP
Instance domains adds another dimension (set of values) to metrics.
However, this may not suffice to describe complex multi-dimensional
instance domain situations.
For this case the approach used by a number of PMDAs is to structure
the external instance names
using a delimiter (``/'' or ``::'' are most commonly used) to allow
separation of the other dimensions.
In this situation, instance domain labels should be used to define
names for each instance name component.
This allows
.BR PMAPI (3)
client tools to identify and refine value fetches
to specific dimensions of interest.
.PP
For example, some of the Linux kernel cgroup (control group) metric
instance domains are multi-dimensional.
The instance domain represents individual values across both control
groups and CPUs, making this a two-dimensional instance domain.
The instance names associated with this cgroup metrics indom have
been structured using the ``::'' delimiter to separate the two
dimensions.
The instance domain itself has been labeled accordingly, as follows.
.P
.ft CW
.nf
.B "$ pminfo \-\-desc \-\-fetch \-\-labels cgroup.cpuacct.usage_percpu"
cgroup.cpuacct.usage_percpu
.in +0.5i
Data Type: 64-bit unsigned int  InDom: 3.22 0xc00016
Semantics: counter  Units: nanosec
inst [0 or "/::cpu0"] value 713787
inst [1 or "/::cpu1"] value 353969
inst [2 or "/app::cpu0"] value 407816
inst [3 or "/app::cpu1"] value 202747
inst [0 or "/::cpu0"] labels {"device_type":"cpu","cgroup":"/","cpu":0}
inst [1 or "/::cpu1"] labels {"device_type":"cpu","cgroup":"/","cpu":1}
inst [2 or "/app::cpu0"] labels {"device_type":"cpu","cgroup":"/app","cpu":0}
inst [3 or "/app::cpu1"] labels {"device_type":"cpu","cgroup":"/app","cpu":1}
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.P
.ft CW
.nf
.B "$ pminfo \-\-labels 3.22"
InDom: 3.22 0xc00016
.in +0.5i
labels {"device_type":"cpu"}
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.P
As shown above the individual instances inherit the labels from
the instance domain, and the PMDA also applies additional
per-instance labels describing individual cgroup and CPU names.
When this model has been used by the PMDA, PMAPI clients are
able to restrict their queries to the cgroup metric instances \-
in the example, restricting to processor "cpu0" using the "cpu"
label, perhaps, or to just the "/app" cgroup metrics using the
"cgroup" label.
.PP
Furthermore, using this labeling scheme client tools can also
correlate related instances across different instance domains.
.P
.ft CW
.nf
.B "$ pminfo \-\-desc \-\-fetch \-\-labels kernel.percpu.cpu.irq.soft"
kernel.percpu.cpu.irq.soft
.in +0.5i
Data Type: 64-bit unsigned int  InDom: 60.0 0xf000000
Semantics: counter  Units: millisec
inst [0 or "cpu0"] value 6770
inst [1 or "cpu1"] value 100
inst [0 or "cpu0"] labels {"device_type":"cpu"}
inst [1 or "cpu1"] labels {"device_type":"cpu"}
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.P
.ft CW
.nf
.B "$ pminfo \-\-labels 60.0"
InDom: 60.0 0xf000000
.in +0.5i
labels {"device_type":"cpu"}
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.P
Although these two metrics have different instance domains (\c
.I 60.0
and
.I 3.22
respectively) and are sourced from different PMDAs, the "device_type"
label identifies the common device to which these values relate.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If any errors occur during the execution of
.BR pmdaInstance ,
the
.I result
structure is deallocated.  If the instance domain
.I indom
is not supported by the PMDA, 
.B pmdaInstance
will return
.BR PM_ERR_INDOM .
.PP
If the
.I inst
or
.I name
does not correspond to any instances in the 
.I indom
domain, 
.B pmdaInstance
will return
.BR PM_ERR_INST .
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_INTERFACE_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
If labeling of multi-dimensional instance names is performed,
the PMDA must use
.B PMDA_INTERFACE_7
or later.
.PP
Because of optional partial matching up to the first space in the instance 
name, the
.B PMDA
developer should ensure that if instance names are allowed to have
spaces, the names are unique up to the first space.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR malloc (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaCacheStore (3),
.BR pmdaLabel (3)
and
.BR pmGetInDom (3).
