'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAOPENLOG 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaOpenLog\f1 \- redirect stderr to a logfile
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
void pmdaOpenLog(pmdaInterface * \fIdispatch\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaOpenLog
redirects
.I stderr
to the logfile specified in the 
.I dispatch
structure, set by the previous call to
.BR pmdaDaemon (3)
or
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3).
The first line of the log file will detail the name of the calling process,
the host the process is running on, and the current time.  In addition, the 
log is appended with the exit time of the process by
a routine registered with 
.BR atexit (3).
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.IR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR atexit (2),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3)
and
.BR pmdaGetOpt (3).
