'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDACHILDREN 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaChildren\f1 \- translate a PMID to a set of dynamic performance metric names
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmdaChildren(char *\fIname\fP, int \fItraverse\fP, char\ ***\fIoffspring\fP, int\ **\fIstatus\fP, pmdaExt\ *\fIpmda\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.BR pmdaChildren
is the generic callback for
returning dynamic metric names (and their status) that are descendants of
.IR name .
.PP
Because implementing dynamic performance metrics requires specific
PMDA support, and the facility is an optional component of a PMDA (most
PMDAs do
.B not
support dynamic performance metrics),
.B pmdaChildren
is a skeleton implementation that returns
.BR PM_ERR_NAME .
.PP
A PMDA that supports dynamic performance metrics will provide a private
callback that replaces
.B pmdaChildren
(by assignment to
.I version.four.children
of the
.I pmdaInterface
structure)
and takes the initial metric
.I name
and returns names via
.IR offspring []
and the leaf or non-leaf status of each via
.IR status [].
.PP
If
.I traverse
is 0, then the behaviour is akin to
.BR pmGetChildren (3)
and
.IR offspring []
contains the relative name component for the immediate descendants of
.IR name.
.PP
If
.I traverse
is 1, then the behaviour is akin to
.BR pmTraversePMNS (3)
and
.IR offspring []
contains the absolute names of all dynamic metrics that are decedents
of
.IR name .
.PP
The resulting list of pointers
.I offspring
.B and
the values
(the names) that the pointers reference will have been
allocated by
.B pmdaChildren
with a single call to
.BR malloc (3),
and the
caller of
.B pmdaChildren
will call
.BR free (\c
.IR offspring )
to release the space
when it is no longer required.
The same holds true for the 
.I status
array.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B 
pmdaChildren
returns
.B PM_ERR_NAME
if the name is not recognized or cannot be translated,
otherwise the number of descendent metric names found.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_4 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3),
.BR pmdaMain (3),
.BR pmGetChildren (3)
and
.BR pmTraversePMNS (3).
