'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMDAPROFILE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMDAPROFILE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMDAPROFILE 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMDAPROFILE 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMDAPROFILE "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaProfile\f1 \- update instance profile for PMDA in preparation for the next fetch from PMCD
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
int pmdaProfile(__pmProfile *prof, pmdaExt *pmda);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.B pmdaProfile
is the default callback which handles the receipt of a 
.B __pmProfile
from 
.BR pmcd (1).
A profile describes the instances that 
.B pmcd
requires in the 
.B pmResult
structure returned by the next fetch.
.B pmdaProfile
simply stores the new profile.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
and
.BR pmdaFetch (3).
