'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDASTORE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaStore\f1 \- store a value into a metric for a PMDA
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmda.h>
.sp
int pmdaStore(pmResult *\fIresult\fP, pmdaExt *\fIpmda\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_pmda \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) API (see
.BR PMDA (3)),
.BR pmdaStore
is the generic callback for storing a value into a metric.
.B pmdaStore
is usually a no-op as, by default, no metrics can be altered.  
Also, the implementation of a store callback which does permit
metrics to be altered by
.BR pmstore (1)
is very application dependent.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B 
pmdaStore
returns
.B PM_ERR_PERMISSION
to indicate that no metrics may be modified.
.SH CAVEAT
The PMDA must be using 
.B PMDA_PROTOCOL_2 
or later, as specified in the call to 
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
or 
.BR pmdaDaemon (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmstore (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaDaemon (3),
.BR pmdaDSO (3)
and
.BR pmStore (3).
