'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDELPROFILE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmDelProfile\f1 \- delete instance(s) from the current PMAPI instance profile
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmDelProfile(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int \fInuminst\fP, int *\fIinstlist\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The set of instances for performance metrics returned from a
.BR pmFetch (3)
call may be filtered or restricted using an instance profile.
There is one instance profile for each context the application
creates at the Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI),
and each instance profile may include instances from one or more
instance domains (see
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)).
.PP
.B pmDelProfile
may be used to
delete instance specifications from the instance profile of the current
PMAPI context.
.PP
In the simplest variant, the list of instances identified by the
.I instlist
argument for the
.I indom
instance domain are removed from the instance
profile.
The list of instance identifiers contains
.I numinst
values.
.PP
The
.I indom
value would normally be extracted from a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric, and the instances in
.I instlist
would typically be determined by calls to
.BR pmGetInDom (3)
or
.BR pmLookupInDom (3).
.PP
If
.I indom
equals
.B PM_INDOM_NULL
or
.I numinst
is zero,
then all instance domains are selected for deletion.  If
.I instlist
is
.CW "NULL" ,
then all instances in the selected domain(s) are removed
from the profile.
.PP
To disable all available instances in all domains, use
.CW "pmDelProfile(PM_INDOM_NULL, 0, NULL)" .
This is the only situation in which
.I indom
may be
.BR PM_INDOM_NULL .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmAddProfile (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmGetInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupInDom (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmUseContext (3)
and
.BR pmWhichContext (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_PROFILESPEC\f1
.I indom
was
.B PM_INDOM_NULL
and
.I instlist
was not empty
.SH CAVEAT
It is possible to delete non-existent instance domains and non-existent
instances from an instance profile.  None of the routines that use the instance
profile will ever issue an error if you do this.  The cost of checking, when
checking is possible, outweighs any benefits.
