'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDISCOVERSERVICES 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmDiscoverServices\f1 \- discover PCP services on the network
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmDiscoverServices(const char *\fIservice\fP, const char *\fImechanism\fP, char ***\fIurls\fP);
.fi
.sp
#include <pcp/libpcp.h>
.sp
.nf
int __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions(const char *\fIservice\fP, const char *\fImechanism\fP, const char *\fIoptionsString\fP, const volatile unsigned *\fIflags\fP, char ***\fIurls\fP);
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH CAVEAT
This documentation is intended for internal Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) developer use.
.PP
These interfaces are not part of the PCP APIs that are guaranteed to
remain fixed across releases, and they may not work, or may provide
different semantics at some point in the future.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
Given a PCP service name, as identified by
.IR service ,
and using the type of discovery optionally specified in
.IR mechanism ,
.B pmDiscoverServices
returns, via
.IR urls ,
a list of URLs representing the services discovered on the network.
.PP 
The internal function
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions
performs the same function and adds arguments for global options and a mechanism
for interrupting the discovery process.
.PP
The
.BR pmfind (1)
utility provides command line access to both of these interfaces.
.PP
Calling
.sp
pmDiscoverServices(\fIservice\fP, \fImechanism\fP, \fIurls\fP)
.sp
is equivalent to calling
.sp
__pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions(\fIservice\fP, \fImechanism\fP, NULL, NULL, \fIurls\fP);
.PP 
.I service
specifies the PCP service to be discovered.
Currently supported services are
.B PM_SERVER_SERVICE_SPEC,
.B PM_PROXY_SERVICE_SPEC
and
.B PM_WEBD_SERVICE_SPEC,
which search for
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmproxy (1),
and
.BR pmwebd (1),
servers respectively.
.PP 
.IR mechanism
specifies the style of discovery to be used.
.PP
The currently supported mechanisms are:
.TP
.B avahi
This searches for services which are broadcasting using mDNS via
.BR avahi-daemon (8).
An optional suffix \fB",timeout=N"\fP may be added
to specify the discovery timeout in floating-point multiples of one
second.
The default timeout is 0.5 seconds, which may be overridden
by the \fBAVAHI_DISCOVERY_TIMEOUT\fP environment variable, also
specified in floating-point multiples of one second.
If both are specified, then
the value specified in the environment variable takes precedence.
.TP
.B probe=<net-address>/<mask-bits>
Actively probes the given subnet for the requested PCP service(s).
<net-address> is an inet or ipv6
network address and <mask-bits> is the number of bits used to define the
subnet.
For example, 192.168.1.0/24 defines an 8 bit subnet consisting of the
addresses 192.168.1.0 through 192.168.1.255.
An optional suffix \fB",maxThreads=N"\fP may be added to limit the number of
threads used while probing.
The default is the value of FD_SETSIZE (which is typically 1024) or the
number of addresses in the subnet, whichever is less.
An optional suffix \fB",timeout=N"\fP may be added to specify the timeout
for each connection attempt in floating-point multiples of one second.
The default is 0.02 seconds (20 milliseconds).
.TP
.B shell
Probes the list of addresses provided by scripts for requested PCP service(s).
Several optional, comma-separated parameters can also be provided.
Firstly, the \fB"path=DIR"\fP option specifies the directory where
commands like
.BR pcp-kube-pods (1)
are located (defaults to
.IR "$PCP_BINADM_DIR/discover/" ).
This setting can be further restricted to an individual command
using the \fBcommand=CMD\fP option, but the default is to use all
available commands from the \fBpath\fP.
The \fB"maxThreads=N"\fP option limits the number of threads used while
probing.
The default is the value of FD_SETSIZE (which is typically 1024) or the
number of addresses returned by the scripts, whichever is less.
The \fB"timeout=N"\fP option may be added to limit the amount of
time spent waiting for each connection attempt.
N is a floating point number specifying the number of seconds to wait.
The default is 0.02 seconds (20 milliseconds).
.PP
.IR mechanism
may also be NULL, which means to use all available discovery mechanisms.
.PP 
For
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions,
.IR optionsString
specifies global options to be applied to the discovery process.
Options are comma-separated and may be one or more of the following:
.TP
.B resolve
This requests that DNS name resolution be attempted for the addresses of any
discovered services.
.TP
.B timeout=N
This specifies a timeout period after which the discovery process will be
interrupted.
N is a floating point number representing the number of seconds
before timing out.
.PP
.IR optionsString
may also be NULL, which means that no global options are specified.
.PP 
For
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions,
.IR flags
specifies a pointer to an object of type \fIunsigned\fR which is a bit mask of
options/status flags for the discovery process.
The supported flags are:
.TP
.B PM_SERVICE_DISCOVERY_RESOLVE
Specifying this flag is equivalent to specifying \fIresolve\fR in the
\fIoptionsString\fR
.TP
.B PM_SERVICE_DISCOVERY_INTERRUPTED
This flag must be unset when calling
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions
but may be set asynchronously (by an interrupt handler, for example) in order
to interrupt the service discovery process.
.PP
.IR flags
may also be NULL, which indicates that no flags are set.
.PP 
.B pmDiscoverServices
and
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions
will return the number of services discovered, else a value
less than zero for an error.
The value zero indicates that no services were discovered.
.PP
The resulting list of pointers,
.IR urls ,
.B and
the values
(the URLs) that the pointers reference will have been allocated by
.B pmDiscoverServices
or
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions
with a single call to
.BR malloc (3),
and it is the
responsibility of the
.B pmDiscoverServices
or
.B __pmDiscoverServicesWithOptions
caller to
.BR free (\c
.IR urls )
to release the space
when it is no longer required.
.PP
When an error occurs, or no services are discovered,
.I urls
is undefined (no space will have been
allocated, and so calling
.BR free (3)
is a singularly bad idea).
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.BR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmwebd (1),
.BR pmfind (1),
.BR pcp-kube-pods (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR avahi-daemon (8).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3-EINVAL\f1
An invalid argument has been specified.
.IP \f3-ENOMEM\f1
Unable to allocate memory required to process the request.
.IP \f3-EOPNOTSUPP\f1
The specified \fImechanism\fP is not supported.
