'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDUPCONTEXT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmDupContext\f1 \- duplicate a PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmDupContext(void);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
An application using the
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
may manipulate several concurrent contexts,
each associated with a source of performance metrics, e.g. \c
.BR pmcd (1)
on some host, or a set of archive logs of performance metrics as created by
.BR pmlogger (1).
.PP
Calling
.B pmDupContext
will
replicate the current PMAPI context,
returning a handle for the new context that may be used with subsequent
calls to
.BR pmUseContext (3).
.PP
Once created, the duplicated context and the original context have independent
existence, and so their instance profiles and 
collection time (relevant only for archive contexts)
may be independently varied.
.PP
The newly replicated context becomes the current context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3)
and
.BR pmUseContext (3).
