'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMERRSTR 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMERRSTR 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMERRSTR 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMERRSTR 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMERRSTR "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmErrStr\f1 \- convert a PMAPI error code into a string
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
const char *pmErrStr(int code)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Translate an error code into a text string, suitable for generating a
diagnostic message.
By convention, all error codes are negative.
The small
values are assumed to be negated versions of the Unix error codes as defined
in
.B <errno.h>
and the strings returned are as per
.BR strerror (3C).
The larger, negative error codes are
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
error conditions and
.BR pmErrStr (3)
returns an appropriate PMAPI error string, as determined by
.IR code .
.PP
The string value is held in a single static buffer, so the returned value is
only valid until the next call to
.BR pmErrStr .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmerr (1),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR perror (3C).
