'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMEVENTFLAGSSTR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmEventFlagsStr\f1,
\f3pmEventFlagsStr_r\f1 \- convert an event record flags value into a string
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
const char *pmEventFlagsStr(int \fIflags\fP);
.br
char *pmEventFlagsStr_r(int \fIflags\fP, char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
For use in error and diagnostic messages,
.B pmEventFlagsStr
returns a `human readable' version of
the value
.IR flags ,
assuming this to be the
.B er_flags
field of a
.B pmEventRecord
or
.BR pmEventHighResRecord .
The
.B pmEventFlagsStr_r
function does the same, but stores the result in a user-supplied buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen ,
which should have room for at least 64 bytes.
.PP
The string value result from
.B pmEventFlagsStr
is held in a single static buffer, so the returned value is
only valid until the next call to
.BR pmEventFlagsStr .
.SH NOTES
.B pmEventFlagsStr
returns a pointer to a static buffer and hence is not thread-safe.
Multi-threaded applications should use
.B pmEventFlagsStr_r
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmdaEventAddRecord (3).
