'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMEXTRACTVALUE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmExtractValue\f1 \- extract a performance metric value from a pmResult structure
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmExtractValue(int \fIvalfmt\fP, const pmValue *\fIival\fP, int\ \fIitype\fP, pmAtomValue\ *\fIoval\fP, int\ \fIotype\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The
.CW pmValue
structure is embedded within the
.CW pmResult
structure that is used to return one or more performance metrics;
see
.BR pmFetch (3).
.PP
All performance metric values may be encoded in a
.CW pmAtomValue
union, defined as follows;
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
typedef union {
    __int32_t    l;     /* 32-bit signed */
    __uint32_t   ul;    /* 32-bit unsigned */
    __int64_t    ll;    /* 64-bit signed */
    __uint64_t   ull;   /* 64-bit unsigned */
    float        f;     /* 32-bit floating point */
    double       d;     /* 64-bit floating point */
    char         *cp;   /* char ptr */
    pmValueBlock *vbp;  /* pmValueBlock ptr */
} pmAtomValue;
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
The routine
.B pmExtractValue
provides a convenient mechanism for extracting values from the 
.CW pmValue
part of a
.CW pmResult
structure, optionally converting the data type, and making the result 
available to the application programmer.
.PP
.I itype 
defines the data type of the input value held in
.I ival
according to the storage format defined by
.I valfmt
(see
.BR pmFetch (3)).
.I otype
defines the data type of the result to be placed in
.IR oval .
.PP
The value for
.I itype
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
The
.I otype
value should be one of the defined
.BR PM_TYPE_ ...
values, that have a
1:1 correspondence with the fields in the
.CW pmAtomValue
union.
.PP
Normally the
.I valfmt
parameter would be plucked from the same
.CW pmResult
structure that provides the
.I ival
parameter, and if
.I valfmt
specifies
.BR PM_VAL_INSITU ,
then the
following types are not allowed, as these cannot be encoded in 32-bits;
.BR __int64_t ,
.BR __uint64_t , 
.BR double ,
.B char *
and
.B void *
(the corresponding
.I itype
values are
.BR PM_TYPE_64 ,
.BR PM_TYPE_U64 ,
.BR PM_TYPE_DOUBLE ,
.BR PM_TYPE_STRING ,
.B PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE
and
.B PM_TYPE_EVENT
respectively).
If
.I valfmt
specifies
.BR PM_VAL_PTR ,
then the value will be extracted from the associated
.CW pmValueBlock
structure, and the
.BR __int32_t ,
.B __uint32_t
and
.B float
options (\c
.I itype
being 
.BR PM_TYPE_32 ,
.B PM_TYPE_U32
and
.B PM_TYPE_FLOAT
respectively) are not allowed, as
.B PM_VAL_INSITU
is the appropriate encoding for these.
.PP
The following table defines the various possibilities for the type
conversion -- the input type (\c
.IR itype )
is shown vertically, and the output type (\c
.IR otype )
is shown horizontally.
Y means the conversion is always acceptable, N means the conversion can never be performed (the function returns 
.BR PM_ERR_CONV ),
P means the conversion may lose accuracy (but no error status is returned),
T means the result may be subject to high-order truncation (in which case
the function returns
.BR PM_ERR_TRUNC )
and S means the conversion may be impossible due to the
sign of the input value (in which case the function returns
.BR PM_ERR_SIGN ).
If an error occurs, the value represented by
.I oval
will be zero (or
.BR NULL ).
.PP
Note that although some of the conversions involving the types
.B PM_TYPE_STRING
and
.B PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE
are indeed possible, but are marked N \- the rationale
is that
.B pmExtractValue
should not be attempting to duplicate functionality
already available in the C library via
.BR sscanf (3)
and
.BR sprintf (3).
.PP
No conversion involving the type
.B PM_TYPE_EVENT
is supported.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
      | 32  |  U32  | 64  |  U64  | FLOAT | DBLE | STRNG | AGGR | EVENT
======|=====|=======|=====|=======|=======|======|=======|======|=======
32    |  Y  |   S   |  Y  |   S   |   P   |  P   |   N   |  N   |   N
U32   |  T  |   Y   |  Y  |   Y   |   P   |  P   |   N   |  N   |   N
64    |  T  |  T,S  |  Y  |   S   |   P   |  P   |   N   |  N   |   N
U64   |  T  |   T   |  T  |   Y   |   P   |  P   |   N   |  N   |   N
FLOAT | P,T | P,T,S | P,T | P,T,S |   Y   |  Y   |   N   |  N   |   N
DBLE  | P,T | P,T,S | P,T | P,T,S |   P   |  Y   |   N   |  N   |   N
STRNG |  N  |   N   |  N  |   N   |   N   |  N   |   Y   |  N   |   N
AGGR  |  N  |   N   |  N  |   N   |   N   |  N   |   N   |  Y   |   N
EVENT |  N  |   N   |  N  |   N   |   N   |  N   |   N   |  N   |   N
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
In the cases where multiple conversion errors could occur, the first
encountered error will be notified, and the order of checking is not defined.
.PP
If the output conversion is to one of the pointer types, i.e. \c
.I otype
is
.B PM_TYPE_STRING
or
.BR PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE ,
then the value buffer will have been allocated by
.BR pmExtractValue (3)
using
.BR malloc (3),
and it is the caller's responsibility to free the space when it is no longer
required.
.PP
Although this function appears rather complex, it has been constructed to
assist the development of performance tools that wish to convert values,
whose type is only known via the
.CW type
field in a 
.CW pmDesc
structure, into a canonical type for local processing.
See the
.BR pmFetchGroup
functions for a simpler alternative.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmAtomStr (3),
.BR pmConvScale (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmFetchGroup (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmPrintValue (3),
.BR pmTypeStr (3),
.BR pmUnitsStr (3)
and
.BR pmUnpackEventRecords (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
.B PM_ERR_CONV
.IP
Impossible conversion, marked by N in above table
.P
.B PM_ERR_TRUNC
.IP
High-order truncation occurred
.P
.B PM_ERR_SIGN
.IP
Conversion of negative value to unsigned type attempted
