'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016,2022 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMFETCHARCHIVE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmFetchArchive\f1,
\f3pmFetchHighResArchive\f1 \- get performance metric values directly from archives
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmFetchArchive(pmResult **\fIresult\fP);
.br
int pmFetchHighResArchive(pmHighResResult **\fIresult\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pmFetchArchive
and
.B pmFetchHighResArchive
APIs are variants of the
.BR pmFetch (3)
and
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
interfaces that may only be used when the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context is associated with a set of archives.
.PP
The
.I result
is instantiated with all of the metrics (and instances)
from the next archive record,
consequently there is no notion of a list of desired metrics,
and the instance profile of the PMAPI context is ignored.
.PP
.B pmFetchArchive
and
.B pmFetchHighResArchive
may return a
.I result
in which
.I numpmid
is zero.
This is a
.I <mark>
record that indicates a temporal discontinuity in the time series
of performance metrics.
This can happen at the boundary between archives in a set or if
the archive associated with the current PMAPI context was created
using
.BR pmlogextract (1)
to concatenate two or more PCP archives, and the
.I <mark>
record marks a point in time between the end of one input archive and
the start of the next input archive.
.PP
It is expected that
.B pmFetchArchive
and
.B pmFetchHighResArchive
will be used to create utilities that scan sets of archives,
while the more common access to the archives would be via the
.B pmFetch
and
.B pmFetchHighRes
interfaces.
.PP
To skip records within the set of archives, use
.BR pmSetMode (3)
to change the collection time within the current
PMAPI context, then call either
.B pmFetchArchive
or
.BR pmFetchHighResArchive .
.PP
Note that the
.I result
returned by both
.B pmFetchArchive
and
.B pmFetchHighResArchive
is dynamically allocated, and
must be released using either
.BR pmFreeResult (3)
or
.BR pmFreeHighResResult (3),
but not
.BR free (3).
See
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3),
.BR pmFreeResult (3)
and
.BR pmFreeHighResResult (3)
for further details.
.PP
Both
.B pmFetchArchive
and
.B pmFetchHighResArchive
returns zero on success.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTARCHIVE\f1
the current PMAPI context is not associated with a set of archives
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3),
.BR pmFreeHighResResult (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmFreeResult (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmSetMode (3)
and
.BR pmTrimNameSpace (3).
