'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMFREEEVENTRESULT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmFreeEventResult\f1,
\f3pmFreeHighResEventResult\f1 \- release storage allocated for unpacked event records
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
void pmFreeEventResult(pmResult **\fIrset\fP);
.br
void pmFreeHighResEventResult(pmHighResResult **\fIhrset\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
When processing event records, if
.BR pmUnpackEventRecords (3)
is used to unpack event records from a metric within a
.I pmResult
structure with a value of type
.B PM_TYPE_EVENT
then the structure returned from
.BR pmUnpackEventRecords (3)
is a NULL pointer terminated array of pointers to
.I pmResult
structures, one for each event record.
.PP
.B pmFreeEventResult
is a convenience method that frees all of the
.I pmResult
structures and the array of pointers (\c
.IR rset ).
.PP
Similarly,
.B pmFreeHighResEventResult
may be used to free the
.I pmHighResResult
structures and array returned from the
.BR pmUnpackHighResEventRecords
routine when using
.BR PM_TYPE_HIGHRES_EVENT
metrics.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmUnpackEventRecords (3).
