\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Ken McDonell.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMFSTRING 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmfstring\f1 \- safe string scanning
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
ssize_t pmfstring(FILE *\fIf\fP, char **\fIstr\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmfstring
is a safe string scanning routine with semantics similar to
.BR fscanf (3)
with the
.B %s
format specifier.
It scans the input stream from
.I f
skipping initial whitespace characters, then accumulating all the subsequent
non-whitespace characters.
.PP
The main difference is that
.B pmfstring
allocates the result buffer
.I str
using the
.BR malloc (3)
family and ensures that
.I str
is (a) large enough and (b) null-byte terminated.
.PP
Additionally
.B pmfstring
does not consider \en to be a whitespace character in the initial
scan (before filling
.IR str )
and so
will not scan past the end of the current line, which is different
to
.BR fscanf (3)
and better aligned with the PCP use cases.
.PP
The caller is responsible for maintaining a reference to
.I str
or calling
.BR free (3)
to release the associated storage.
.PP
On success,
.B pmfstring
returns the length of
.I str
(the same length as
.BR strlen (3)
would return) that is guaranteed to be not less than 1.
.PP
Failure is indicated by one of the following, and
.I str
is not assigned a value:
.PD 0
.IP \ \(bu 3n
0 to indicate no non-whitespace characters were found before the end of the
current line from the stream
.I f
.IP \ \(bu  3n
-1 (
aka
.BR EOF )
to indicate end of file on the stream
.I f
.IP \ \(bu 3n
-2 to indicate some more serious failure, probably in the
.BR malloc (3)
routines; refer to
.I errno
for more information
.PD
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.B pmfstring
has similar semantics to the
.B %ms
format specifier in some versions of
.BR fscanf (3)
and the C99
.BR fscanf_s (3)
routine \- unfortunately neither of these is portable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR free (3),
.BR fscanf (3),
.BR malloc (3)
and
.BR strlen (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ pmfstring fscanf_s stdmacro ssize_t aka
