'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMGETINDOM 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMGETINDOM 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMGETINDOM 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMGETINDOM 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMGETINDOM "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmGetInDom\f1,
\f3pmRequestInDom\f1,
\f3pmReceiveIndom\f1 \- get instance identifiers for a performance metrics instance domain
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmGetInDom(pmInDom indom, int **instlist, char ***namelist)
int pmRequestInDom(int ctx, pmInDom indom)
int pmReceiveInDom(int ctx, int **instlist, char ***namelist)
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
In the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context,
locate the description of the instance domain
.IR indom ,
and return via
.I instlist
the internal instance identifiers for all instances,
and via
.I namelist
the full external identifiers for all instances.
The number of instances found is returned as the function value 
(else less than zero to indicate an error).
.PP
The value for the instance domain
.I indom
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
The resulting lists of instance identifiers (\c
.I instlist
and
.IR namelist ),
and the names that the elements of
.I namelist
point to, will have been allocated by
.B pmGetInDom
with two calls to 
.BR malloc (3C), 
and it is the responsibility of the caller to
.CW free(instlist)
and
.CW free(namelist)
to release the space when it is no longer required.
.PP
When the result of
.B pmGetInDom
is less than one, both
.I instlist
and
.I namelist
are undefined (no space will have been allocated,
and so calling 
.BR free (3C)
is a singularly bad idea).
.PP
\f3pmRequestInDom\fP and \f3pmReceiveInDom\fP are used by applications
which must  communicate with the PMCD asynchronously.  These functions
take explict context handle \f2ctx\fP which must refer to a host
context (i.e. created by passing \f3PM_CONTEXT_HOST\fP to
\f3pmNewContext\fP). \f3pmRequestInDom\fP sends request to enumerate all
instances in the particular instance domain to
PMCD and returns  without waiting for the response, \f3pmReceiveInDom\fP
reads reply from PMCD. It is the responsibility of the application
to make sure the data are ready before calling \f3pmReceiveInDom\f1 to avoid
blocking.
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
Values for these variables may be obtained programatically
using the
.BR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupInDom (3),
.BR pmNameInDom (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_INDOM\f1
.I indom
is not a valid instance domain identifier
.IP \f3PM_ERR_CTXBUSY\f1
Context is currently in use by another asynchronous call.
