'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMGETVERSION 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmGetVersion\f1 \- fetch installed PCP version number
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmGetVersion(void);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.hy 0
.B pmGetVersion
returns a binary encoding of the locally installed PCP version number.
.PP
This may be used in conjunction with the related macros
.BR PM_VERSION (a,b,c)
and
.BR PM_VERSION_CURRENT
that generate PCP version numbers in the same format.  Refer to the
example below.
.PP
The encoding uses one byte for each of the parts of the version number of the
installed PCP package, namely the major number, the minor number
and the revision number.  So PCP version 3.10.5 is encoded as 0x30a05.
.PP
The string format of the installed PCP package version number
as also available from
.BR pmGetConfig
with the argument
.BR PCP_VERSION .
.PP
.B pmGetVersion
was introduced in PCP 3.10.5.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following C fragment demonstrates the use of both the compile-time
macros and the run-time
.B pmGetVersion
function for an application that should not be built for PCP versions
older than 3.10.5, but after that there are two alternative implementations
with a newer (faster, sweeter, smaller) variant 
of the XYZ service that only becoming available
in PCP 4.0.0.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>

#ifdef PM_VERSION_CURRENT
#if PM_VERSION_CURRENT < PM_VERSION(3,10,5)
    /* no pmGetVersion() before PCP 3.10.5 */
    printf("PCP version 0x%x too old\en", PM_VERSION_CURRENT);
#endif
    version = pmGetVersion();
    if (version >= PM_VERSION(4,0,0) {
	/* V2 of the XYZ service introduced in PCP 4.0.0 */
	printf("Using V2 of service XYZ\en")
	...
    }
    else {
	printf("Using V1 of service XYZ\en")
	...
    }
#else
    {
	char *ver = pmGetConfig("PCP_VERSION");
	/* only option is to extract version number from returned string */
	...
    }
#endif
.ft
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
and
.BR pmGetConfig  (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
