.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMGETOPTIONS 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmgetopt_r\f1,
\f3pmGetOptions\f1,
\f3pmGetContextOptions\f1,
\f3pmFreeOptions\f1,
\f3pmUsageMessage\f1 \- command line handling for PMAPI tools
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.br
int pmgetopt_r(int \fIargc\fP, char *const *\fIargv\fP, pmOptions *\fIopts\fP);
.br
int pmGetOptions(int \fIargc\fP, char *const *\fIargv\fP, pmOptions *\fIopts\fP);
.br
int pmGetContextOptions(int \fIctx\fP, pmOptions *\fIopts\fP);
.br
void pmUsageMessage(pmOptions *\fIopts\fP);
.br
void pmFreeOptions(pmOptions *\fIopts\fP);
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pmGetOptions
function provides command line option processing services for both
monitor and collector
.BR PMAPI (3)
tools.
It is modelled on the thread-safe variants of the GNU
.BR getopt_long (3)
API, and primarily differs in its focus on providing generalised
processing for the (de-facto) standard PCP command line options
described in
.BR PCPIntro (1).
These common options include the host and archive specification,
time windows, timezones, sample counts, time intervals, and so on.
.PP
The primary interface is
.BR pmGetOptions ,
which should be passed the
.I argc
argument count and
.I argv
array, as passed to the
.IR main()
function on program invocation.
The final
.I opts
argument describes the set of long and short options the tools is
prepared to process, and other metadata regarding how those options
should be processed.
.PP
The
.B pmgetopt_r
interface, used internally by
.BR pmGetOptions ,
behaves in a similar fashion, but it does not perform any common
option processing.
It is more suited to PCP collector processes, whereas PCP monitor
tools tend to use
.BR pmGetOptions .
.PP
The
.I opts
argument consists of an array of
.I pmLongOpts
entries describing the arguments, as well as the enclosing
.I pmOptions
struct, which are defined as follows (internal fields are not
presented, for brevity):
.PP
.sp 0.5v
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.25i
typedef struct {
    const char *        long_opt;
    int                 has_arg;
    int                 short_opt;
    const char *        argname;
    const char *        message;
} pmLongOptions;

typedef struct {
    int                 version;
    int                 flags;
    const char *        short_options;
    pmLongOptions *     long_options;
    const char *        short_usage;
    pmOptionOverride    override;

    int                 index;
    int                 optind;
    int                 opterr;
    int                 optopt;
    char                *optarg;
    /* [internal fields, undocumented] */

    int                 errors;
    int                 context; /* PM_CONTEXT_{HOST,ARCHIVE,LOCAL} */
    int                 nhosts;
    int                 narchives;
    char **             hosts;
    char **             archives;
    struct timeval      start;
    struct timeval      finish;
    struct timeval      origin;
    struct timeval      interval;
    char *              align_optarg;
    char *              start_optarg;
    char *              finish_optarg;
    char *              origin_optarg;
    char *              guiport_optarg;
    char *              timezone;
    int                 samples;
    int                 guiport;
    int                 padding;
    unsigned int        guiflag : 1;
    unsigned int        tzflag  : 1;
    unsigned int        nsflag  : 1;
    unsigned int        Lflag   : 1;
    unsigned int        zeroes  : 28;
} pmOptions;
.in -0.25i
.fi
.ft R
.PP
The initial
.I flags
and
.I version
fields describe how the rest of the pmOptions structure is to be
interpreted.
These fields can be zeroed, specifying a default interpretation.
Alternatively, the PMAPI_VERSION macro can be used to specify the
API level to use (currently, values of 2 or less are allowed).
The
.I flags
field can be used to modify option processing behaviour as
described in the ``FLAGS VALUES'' section below.
.PP
The array of
.I long_options
pmLongOpts structures must be terminated by a sentinel and the
PMAPI_OPTIONS_END macro can be used to effect this termination.
Individual records within the
.I long_options
array can be of two types \- options headers, or actual options.
An options header is constructed using the PMAPI_OPTIONS_HEADER
macro, and is used for usage message option grouping.
Free form text can be inserted into the usage message at any
point using the PMAPI_OPTIONS_TEXT macro \- this is intended
for additional explanatory text covering detailed usage that
is beyond the scope of the individual headers or options.
Otherwise, the array entry specifies an option.
These should be named (\c
.IR long_opt )
if a long-option form is allowed,
specify whether or not they take an argument (\c
.IR has_arg ),
specify the single character variant argument (\c
.IR short_opt )
if a short-option form is allowed,
and finally specify how to present the option in the usage message.
This latter component consists of a short, one-word description of
the optional argument (\c
.IR argname )
and a one-line description of what the command-line option does (\c
.IR message ).
.PP
The
.I short_usage
string is also used only when constructing the usage message.
It forms the component of the usage message that follows the
program name (i.e. \c
.IR argv[0] ).
.PP
The optional
.I short_options
string is the normal
.I getopt
command-line option specification string, using individual
characters (those with arguments are designated as such
using the ':' character) \- as used by all
.I getopt
implementations.
.PP
A facility is provided to extend the existing set of common options
with additional options, as well as to re-task the standard options
into non-standard roles for individual tools.
The latter is achieved using the
.I override
method, which allows a callback function to be provided which will
be called on receipt of every argument, prior to common processing.
If this callback returns a non-zero value the common processing will
be short-circuited for that option, otherwise processing continues.
Thus, aach client tool is free to choose exactly which of the standard
options they wish to support \- this can be all, some, or none, and
no matter what they choose, each tool always has access to the long
option parsing capability and the usage message generation facility.
.PP
The remaining pmOptions structure fields are filled in as a result
of processing the arguments, and are largely self-explanatory.
Further discussion of these is deferred to the ``FLAGS VALUES''
section below.
The
.I error
field contains a count of errors detected during option processing.
These can be either usage or runtime errors, as indicated by the
.I flags
field (set, and passed out to the caller).
Typically, a command line tool will fail to start successfully and
will produce an error message (e.g. via
.BR pmUsageMessage )
if the
.I error
field is non-zero at the end of either
.B pmGetOptions
or
.BR pmGetContextOptions .
.PP
Some command line option post-processing can only be performed once
the tool has established a PMAPI context via
.BR pmNewContext (3).
This processing includes use of context-aware timezones (\f3\-z\f1),
and time window processing (\f3\-A\f1, \f3\-O\f1, \f3\-S\f1, \f3\-T\f1)
that may be affected by the timezone, for example.
The
.B pmGetContextOptions
function is available for such situations, and it completes any
remaining processing of
.I opts
with respect to the
.I ctx
context identifier given.
.PP
The
.B pmUsageMessage
function generates a usage message for the tool, and included both
standard PCP options and custom options for each tool, as specified
by the pmLongOptions array.
It supports grouping of options (via PMAPI_OPTIONS_HEADER) as well
as neat formatting of all options \- short and long \- their
arguments, and individual explanatory messages.
It will build this usage message using
.BR pmprintf (3)
upon which it will issue a single
.BR pmflush (3)
before returning to the caller, provided the PM_OPTFLAG_USAGE_ERR
flag is set in
.IR flags ,
which will happen automatically during option parsing, when usage
errors are detected.
.PP
In certain situations, such as recording lists of host specifications
or PCP archive paths, the
.B pmGetOptions
routine may allocate memory, and store pointers to it within
.IR opts .
Should a program wish to free this memory before exiting, it can
use the
.B pmFreeOptions
routine to do so.
This is safe to call irrespective of whether memory was allocated
dynamically, provided that
.I opts
was zeroed initially.
.SH "FLAGS VALUES"
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_INIT
Used internally within the library to indicate initialisation has been
done, so that on subsequent calls it will not be done again.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_DONE
Used primarily internally within the library to indicate that the final
option processing has been completed.
This processing involves cross-referencing a number of the options, to
check for mutual exclusion, for example.
There may be other post-processing at this stage also, provided it does
not require a PMAPI context.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_MULTI
Allow more than one host or archive to be specified.
The default is to allow one source of metrics only, however some of the
more sophisticated tools permit multiple metric sources.
See also
.BR PM_OPTFLAG_MIXED .
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_USAGE_ERR
Indicates that the library has detected a command-line usage error.
This is an error such as when an option requires an argument but none
is supplied, or conflicting options are specified (such as \f3\-s\f1
and \f3-T\f1).
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_RUNTIME_ERR
Indicates that the library has detected an error at run time.
This is an error such as failing to retrieve timezone information
from
.B pmcd (1)
or
failing to load an alternate metric namespace from a local file
(via the \f3-n\f1 option).
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_EXIT
Indicates a suggestion from the library that the tool exit cleanly.
This is used when the version number is requested, for example (the
\f3\-V\f1 option and PMOPT_VERSION macro).
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_POSIX
Use strict POSIX command line argument handling.
This means options and following arguments will not be reordered,
so additional options cannot follow command line arguments.
This may be important for tools where the arguments can be negative
numbers, for example, as these should not be treated as command line
options in this case.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_MIXED
Allow both live and archive metric sources to be specified.
The default is to allow one type of metric context only, however some
of the more sophisticated tools permit multiple context types.
See also
.BR PM_OPTFLAG_MULTI .
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_ENV_ONLY
Many options can be specified through the either the command line
or from similarly-named environment variables.
This flag disables all argument parsing, and only changes
.I opts
based on the environment variables.
This may be useful for tools wishing to ensure no command line option
conflicts occur between their own set and the standard PCP option set
(such as an existing tool, reimplemented using PMAPI services).
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_LONG_ONLY
Only process long options, not short options.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_BOUNDARIES
The default
.B pmGetOptions
behaviour is to parse the time window options (namely, \f3\-A\f1,
\f3\-O\f1, \f3\-S\f1 and \f3\-T\f1), only if one of those options
has been specified on the command line.
However, this flag can be used (particularly with archive contexts)
to find the
.I start
and
.I finish
times associated with the context(s) even if no time window options
were specified.
In the case of multiple archives, the time window is defined as the
time window spanning all of the archives.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_STDOUT_TZ
The timezone being used will be reported on the standard output
stream during option parsing.
The default behaviour is to not report, but simply return timezone
information via the
.I timezone
(\f3\-Z\f1)
and
.I tzflag
(\f3\-z\f1)
fields in the
.I opts
structure.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_NOFLUSH
The final
.B pmflush
call issued by
.B pmUsageMessage
will be skipped if this flag is set.
This is useful in situations where the caller wishes to append
additional test to the generated usage message before flushing.
.TP
.B PM_OPTFLAG_QUIET
Suppress messages from
.B pmgetopt_r
about unrecognised command line options.
This is the equivalent to setting the
.I opterr
field in the
.I opt
parameter (which mimics the
.B getopt
variable of the same name).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.B pmGetOptions
function returns either when it detects a command-line option that
is not one of the standard PCP set, or when the end of the command
line options has been reached (at which point \-1 is returned).
Both the
.B pmgetopt_r
and
.B pmGetOptions
routines return control to the caller in the same way that a regular
.B getopt
call would, with the return value indicating either the end of all
processing (\-1), or the single character form of the option currently
being processed, or zero for the special long-option-only case.
For all option-processing cases, the
.I opts
structure is returned containing filled out
.IR optarg ,
.IR opterr ,
.IR optopt ,
.IR optind ,
and
.I index
fields as normal (do
.B NOT
use the global optarg or optind from your platform C library,
these will
.B NOT
be modified).
.PP
.B pmGetOptions
does not return to the caller when any of the standard PCP options are
being processed (although the
.I override
mechanism can be used to still detect such options if needed).
.PP
The
.B pmGetContextOptions
function returns zero on success, or a negative PCP error code
on failure.
The
.I error
field within the
.I
opts
parameter will also be non-zero in the latter case.
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.BR pmGetOptions (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmstat (1),
.BR getopt (3),
.BR getopt_long (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmprintf (3),
.BR pmflush (3)
and
.BR PMAPI (3).
