'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMGETPMNSLOCATION 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmGetPMNSLocation\f1 \- determine the location of the currently used PMNS 
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmGetPMNSLocation(void);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
If an application needs to know where the Performance Metrics Name Space
(PMNS) is coming from then
.B pmGetPMNSLocation
will return whether it is from an archive, \f3PMNS_ARCHIVE\f1,
or from a local PMNS file, \f3PMNS_LOCAL\f1, or from a remote pmcd,
\f3PMNS_REMOTE\f1.
.P
This information may be useful in determining an appropriate error message
depending on the PMNS' location.
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.BR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3),
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
.BR pmTrimNameSpace (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR pmns (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOPMNS\f1
If is not possible to determine where the location of the PMNS is.
This could be due to problems with the current context or being
unable to load a local PMNS.
