'\" t
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMDERIVEDCONTROL 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.ds xM pmDerivedControl
.SH NAME
\f3pmGetDerivedControl\f1,
\f3pmSetDerivedControl\f1  \- get and set controls for derived metrics
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmGetDerivedControl(int \fIwhat\fP, int *\fIvaluep\fP);
.br
int pmSetDerivedControl(int \fIwhat\fP, int \fIvalue\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CR
.ie t \f(CR\\$1\fR\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\fR\\$2
..
These routines may be used to influence the behaviour of the
derived metric services that are activated for global derived metrics
using
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
and
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
or per-context derived metrics using
.BR pmAddDerived (3)
and
.BR pmAddDerivedMetric (3).
.PP
The
.I what
argument selects a control or option, the
.I value
argument provides a value for
.B pmSetDerivedControl
and the
.I valuep
argument is used to return the value for
.BR pmGetDerivedControl .
.PP
The
.I what
argument has one of the following values:
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_GLOBAL_LIMIT
The maximum number of global derived metrics that may be defined.
The
.I value
should be greater than zero, or \-1 (for no limit).
The initial value is \-1.
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONTEXT_LIMIT
The maximum number of per-context derived metrics that may be defined.
The
.I value
should be greater than zero, or \-1 (for no limit).
The initial value is \-1.
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_DEBUG_SYNTAX
Debug diagnostics during parsing of derived metric expression.
The
.I value
1 enables the diagnostics, 0 disables them.
The initial value is 0.
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_DEBUG_SEMANTICS
Debug diagnostics for semantic checks
during the binding of metrics in the derived
metric expression to the available metrics in a new PMAPI context.
The
.I value
1 enables the diagnostics, 0 disables them.
The initial value is 0.
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_DEBUG_EVAL
Debug diagnostics when derived metrics are used in PMAPI operations
like
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmGetChildren (3),
.BR pmGetChildrenStatus (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupName (3),
.BR pmNameAll (3),
.BR pmNameID (3)
and
.BR pmTraversePMNS (3).
The
.I value
1 enables the diagnostics, 0 disables them.
The initial value is 0.
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_OPTION_NOVALUE
When a performance metric (used as an operand
in a derived metric expression) is
no available (e.g. missing from a PCP archive context or not
provided by any PMDA for a host context), then the default behaviour
is to mark the derived metric as undefined.
If this option is set to 1 (the default is 0), then any metric
that is not available is mapped to the
.BR novalue ()
constructor (refer to
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3)
for details), which in essence means the metric is defined, but
attempts to retrieve values via
.BR pmFetch (3)
will return
.B PM_ERR_VALUE
(Missing metric value(s)).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Both routines return 0 on success, else a value less than 0
that can be decoded using
.BR pmErrStr (3).
.PP
Some overloading of error codes is needed to accommodate the
unusual semantics of these routines, as described below.
.TS
box,center;
cf(B) | cf(B)
lf(B) | lf(R)x.
Error	Meaning
_
PM_ERR_NAME	T{
.I what
is not one of the expected values
T}
_
PM_ERR_ARG	T{
the
.I value
provided to
.B pmSetDerivedControl
is not within the acceptable range
T}
_
PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT	T{
getting or setting
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONTEXT_LIMIT
only makes sense when there is a current PMAPI context
T}
_
PM_ERR_AGAIN	T{
.B pmSetDerivedControl
request would violate precedence rules (see below)
T}
.TE
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
All of the controls and options that are exposed by
.B pmSetDerivedControl
can also be set in two other ways.
.TP 4n
1.
Setting the
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONTROL
environment variable to a value of the form \fIname\fP=\fIinteger\fP where
.I name
is one of the
.I what
macros described above, stripped of the
.B PCP_DERIVED_
prefix, e.g.
.CR novalue=1 \c
\&.
.I name
is case insensitive and multiple specifications are allowed, separated by
commas.  No whitespace is allowed.
.TP 4n
2.
Use of a
.B #control
line in a derived metric configuration file, where the text following the
.B #control
follows exactly the same rules as for the
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONTROL
environment variable described above.
.PP
Given these options can be specified in multiple ways, possibly with
different values, the precedence rules are if
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONTROL
is set, then that value is honoured, else the most recently set value
from
.B #control
or
.B pmSetDerivedControl
is used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmAddDerived (3),
.BR pmAddDerivedMetric (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmErrStr (3),
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
and
.BR PMNS (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ pmDerivedControl {from man generic page name}
.\" +ok+ novalue {from novalue()} PCP_DERIVED_ {from prefix strip}
