'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMGETCONTEXTFD 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMGETCONTEXTFD 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMGETCONTEXTFD 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMGETCONTEXTFD 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMGETCONTEXTFD "" "" "\&"
.\" $Id: pmgetcontextfd.3,v 1.1 2006/06/19 09:53:58 makc Exp $
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmGetContextFD\f1,
\f3pmGetContextTimeout\f1 \- get file descriptor associated with a 
PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmGetContextFD(int handle)
int pmGetContextTimeout(int handle)
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
An application using the
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
may manipulate several concurrent contexts to connect to 
.BR pmcd (1).
.PP
.B pmGetContextFD
allows application to retrieve file descriptor used to communicate to
.BR pmcd (1)
and use it to implement some sort of input/output multiplexing scheme.
.PP
.B pmGetContextTimeout
allows application to retrive a time in milliseconds which an application
must wait for the reply from
.BR pmcd (1).
Value -1 means that there is no timeout and application must be prepared to
wait as long as it takes to receive a reply.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLoop (3),
.BR pmDestroyContext (3),
.BR pmDupContext (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmContextConnectTo (3)
and
.BR pmWhichContext (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT\f1
.I handle
does not identify a valid PMAPI context.
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTHOST\f1
The context is not associated with PMCD.
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTCONN\f1
The connection to PMCD is not yet established.
