'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMGETINDOMARCHIVE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmGetInDomArchive\f1 \- get instance identifiers for a performance metrics instance domain
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmGetInDomArchive(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int **\fIinstlist\fP, char ***\fInamelist\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
Provided the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context is associated with an archive log,
.B pmGetInDomArchive
will scan the union of all the instance domain metadata
for the instance domain
.IR indom ,
and return via
.I instlist
the internal instance identifiers for all instances,
and via
.I namelist
the full external identifiers for all instances.
.PP
This routine is a specialized version of the more general PMAPI
routine
.BR pmGetInDom .
.PP
The number of instances found is returned as the function value 
(else less than zero to indicate an error).
.PP
The value for the instance domain
.I indom
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
The resulting lists of instance identifiers (\c
.I instlist
and
.IR namelist ),
and the names that the elements of
.I namelist
point to, will have been allocated by
.B pmGetInDomArchive
with two calls to 
.BR malloc (3C), 
and it is the responsibility of the caller to
.CW free(instlist)
and
.CW free(namelist)
to release the space when it is no longer required.
.PP
When the result of
.B pmGetInDomArchive
is less than one, both
.I instlist
and
.I namelist
are undefined (no space will have been allocated,
and so calling 
.BR free (3C)
is a singularly bad idea).
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.BR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmGetInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupInDomArchive (3),
.BR pmNameInDomArchive (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTARCHIVE\f1
the current PMAPI context is not associated with an archive log
.IP \f3PM_ERR_INDOM_LOG\f1
.I indom
is not a defined instance domain identifier for the archive log
