'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIADDINSTANCE 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiAddInstance\f1 \- add an element to an instance domain in a LOGIMPORT context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiAddInstance(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, const char *\fIinstance\fP, int \fIinst\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiAddInstance($\fIindom\fP, $\fIinstance\fP, $\fIinst\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiAddInstance
adds a new element to the instance domain identified by
.IR indom .
.PP
.I indom
would normally be constructed using the
.B pmInDom_build
macro, e.g. pmInDom_build(PMI_DOMAIN,0) for the first instance domain
in the Performance Metrics Domain PMI_DOMAIN
(which is the default for all meta data created by the LOGIMPORT library).
.PP
The new instance must have both an external name (\c
.IR instance )
and an internal instance identifier (\c
.IR inst )
that is unique across all instances in the
.I indom
instance domain.
There is a special ``uniqueness rule'' for
.I instance
that is imposed by
.BR pmLookupInDom (3),
namely that the external instance name must be unique in the leading
non-space characters, e.g. the instance names ``foo'' and ``foo bar''
are considered the same by this rule and not allowed in the same
instance domain, but ``foo'' and ``foobar'' would be allowed.
.PP
Once defined, the external instance name can be used in calls to
.BR pmiGetHandle (3)
and/or
.BR pmiPutValue (3)
with the name of a metric defined over the same instance domain.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiAddInstance
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiGetHandle (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3)
and
.BR pmLookupInDom (3).
