'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIADDMETRIC 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiAddMetric\f1 \- add a new metric definition to a LOGIMPORT context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmiAddMetric(const char *\fIname\fP, pmID \fIpmid\fP, int\ \fItype\fP, pmInDom\ \fIindom\fP, int\ \fIsem\fP, pmUnits\ \fIunits\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiAddMetric($\fIname\fP, $\fIpmid\fP, $\fItype\fP, $\fIindom\fP, $\fIsem\fP, $\fIunits\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiAddMetric
is used to define a new metric.  The metric's
.I name
must follow the naming conventions described in
.BR PCPIntro (1)
and should be unique for each LOGIMPORT context.
.PP
The other arguments are in effect the fields of a
.B pmDesc
structure.
Refer to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a complete description of the values and semantics of the
components of this
structure, and hence the valid argument values for
.BR pmiAddMetrics .
.PP
The internal identifier for the metric may be given using the
.I pmid
argument and must be unique for each LOGIMPORT context.
The value for
.I pmid
which would typically be constructed using the
.B pmid_build
macro, e.g. pmid_build(PMI_DOMAIN, 0, 3) for the fourth metric in
first ``cluster'' of metrics in the Performance Metrics Domain PMI_DOMAIN
(which is the default for all meta data created by the LOGIMPORT library).
Alternatively,
.I pmid
may be
.B PM_IN_NULL
and
.B pmiAddMetric
will assign a unique
.I pmid
(although this means the
.I pmid
remains opaque and the application must use
.BR pmiPutValue (3)
or
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3)
and cannot use
.BR pmiPutResult (3)
to add data values to the PCP archive).
.PP
.I type
defines the data type of the metric and must be one of the
.B PM_TYPE_...
values
defined in
.BR <pcp/import.h> .
.PP
The instance domain for the metric is defined by
.I indom
and may be
.B PM_INDOM_NULL
for a metric with a singular value, else the value for
.I indom
would normally be constructed using the
.B pmInDom_build
macro, e.g. pmInDom_build(LOGIMPORT,0) for the first instance domain
in the Performance Metrics Domain LOGIMPORT
(which is the default for all meta data created by the LOGIMPORT library).
Multiple metrics can share the same instance domain if they have
values for a similar (or more usually, identical) set of instances.
.PP
The semantics of the metric (counter, instantaneous value, etc.) is
specified by the
.I sem
argument which would normally be the result of a call to the
convenience constructor method
.BR pmiUnits (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiAddMetric
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiPutResult (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3),
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
.BR pmiUnits (3)
and
.BR pmLookupDesc (3).
