'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMID_HELPER 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmID_build\f1,
\f3pmID_domain\f1,
\f3pmID_cluster\f1,
\f3pmID_item\f1 \- helper methods for manipulating PMIDs
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
pmID pmID_build(unsigned int \fIdomain\fP, unsigned int \fIcluster\fP, unsigned int \fIitem\fP);
.br
unsigned int pmID_domain(pmID \fIpmid\fP);
.br
unsigned int pmID_cluster(pmID \fIpmid\fP);
.br
unsigned int pmID_item(pmID \fIpmid\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Within the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) each metric is assigned a
unique Performance Metric Identifier (pmID).
Internally a pmID is constructed from 3 fields: the domain number
(of the associated Performance Metrics Domain Agent, or PMDA),
the cluster number and the item number (the last two are assigned by the PMDA).
.PP
.B pmID_build
constructs a pmID from
.IR domain ,
.I cluster
and
.IR item .
.PP
.BR pmID_domain ,
.B pmID_cluster
and
.B pmID_item
return the respective fields from
.IR pmid .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmIDStr (3).
