'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIGETHANDLE3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiGetHandle\f1 \- define a handle for a metric-instance pair
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiGetHandle(const char *\fIname\fP, const char *\fIinstance\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
$\fIhandle\fP = pmiGetHandle($\fIname\fP, $\fIinstance\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiGetHandle
creates a handle for a given
metric and instance.  The handle is returned as the value from the
.B pmiGetHandle
call and can be used in subsequent calls to
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3).
.PP
The metric's
.I name
should match one defined earlier in a call to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3).
.PP
For singular metrics (those defined with an instance domain of
.BR PM_INDOM_NULL ),
the
.I instance
should be NULL or an empty string, otherwise
.I instance
should match the name of an instance defined earlier in a call
to
.BR pmiAddInstance (3)
for the metric's instance domain.
.PP
When combined with
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
the use of handles provide a performance improvement over the
alternative lookup for a metric name and an instance name for
each data value that is required for
.BR pmiPutValue (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On failure
.B pmiGetHandle
returns a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3)
and
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3).
