'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMINDOMSTR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmInDomStr\f1,
\f3pmInDomStr_r\f1 \- convert a performance metric instance domain identifier into a string
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
const char *pmInDomStr(pmInDom \fIindom\fP);
.br
char *pmInDomStr_r(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
For use in error and diagnostic messages,
.B pmInDomStr
return a 'human readable' version of
the specified instance domain identifier.
The
.B pmInDomStr_r
function does the same, but stores the result in a user-supplied buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen ,
which should have room for at least 20 bytes.
.PP
The value for the instance domain
.I indom
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
Internally, an instance domain identifier is
encoded with two fields: domain and serial.
.PP
.B pmInDomStr
returns a string with each of the fields
appearing as decimal numbers, separated by periods.
.PP
The string value returned by
.B pmInDomStr
is held in a single static buffer, so the returned value is
only valid until the next call to
.BR pmInDomStr .
.SH NOTES
.B pmInDomStr
returns a pointer to a static buffer and hence is not thread-safe.
Multi-threaded applications should use
.B pmInDomStr_r
instead.
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Values for these variables may be obtained programmatically
using the
.BR pmGetConfig (3)
function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmIDStr (3),
.BR pmTypeStr (3),
.BR pmSemStr (3),
.BR pmUnitsStr (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
