'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMINDOM_HELPER 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmInDom_build\f1,
\f3pmInDom_domain\f1,
\f3pmInDom_serial\f1 \- helper methods for manipulating instance domain identifiers
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
pmInDom pmInDom_build(unsigned int \fIdomain\fP, unsigned int \fIserial\fP);
.br
unsigned int pmInDom_domain(pmInDom \fIindom\fP);
.br
unsigned int pmInDom_serial(pmInDom \fIindom\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Within the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) each instance domain is assigned a
unique Instance Domain Identifier (pmInDom).
Internally a pmInDom is constructed from 2 fields: the domain number
(of the associated Performance Metrics Domain Agent, or PMDA) and
the serial number (assigned by the PMDA).
.PP
.B pmInDom_build
constructs a pmInDom from
.I domain
and
.IR serial .
.PP
.BR pmInDom_domain
and
.B pmInDom_serial
return the respective fields from
.IR indom .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmInDomStr (3).
