'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIPUTTEXT 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiPutText\f1 \- add help text for an metric or instance domain
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmiPutText(unsigned int \fItype\fP, unsigned int \fIclass\fP, unsigned int \fIid\fP, const char *\fIcontent\fP)
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiPutText($\fItype\fP, $\fIclass\fP, $\fIid\fP, $\fIcontent\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiPutText
adds help text for a given
metric or instance domain.
.PP
The
.I type
must be one of
.BR PM_TEXT_PMID
or
.BR PM_TEXT_INDOM .
.PP
The
.I class
must be one of
.BR PM_TEXT_ONELINE
or
.BR PM_TEXT_HELP .
.PP
If
.I type
is
.BR PM_TEXT_PMID ,
then
.I id
should match a pmid defined earlier in a call to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3).
If
.I type
is
.BR PM_TEXT_INDOM ,
then
.I id
should match an instance domain defined earlier in a call to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3).
.PP
.I content
is a string containing the content of the help text.
.PP
No data will be written until
.BR pmiWrite (3)
is called, so multiple calls to
.B pmiPutText
are typically used to accumulate help text for several
metrics or instance domains before calling
.BR pmiWrite (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiPutText
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiPutResult (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3),
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
.BR pmiPutLabel (3)
and
.BR pmiWrite (3).
