'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIPUTLABEL 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiPutLabel\f1 \- add labels to the output archive
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmiPutLabel(unsigned int \fItype\fP, unsigned int \fIid\fP, unsigned int \fIinstance\fP, const char *\fIname\fP, const char *\fIvalue\fP)
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiPutLabel($\fItype\fP, $\fIid\fP, $\fIinstance\fP, $\fIname\fP, $\fIvalue\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiPutLabel
adds a label for the global context or for a given domain, cluster, item,
instance domain or instance.
.PP
The
.I type
must be one of
.BR PM_LABEL_CONTEXT,
.BR PM_LABEL_DOMAIN,
.BR PM_LABEL_CLUSTER,
.BR PM_LABEL_ITEM,
.BR PM_LABEL_INDOM,
or
.BR PM_LABEL_INSTANCES .
.PP
.PP
If
.I type
is
.BR PM_LABEL_CONTEXT ,
then
.I id
and
.I instance
are ignored.
Otherwise,
.I id
should match a domain, cluster, metric or instance domain defined earlier in
a call to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3).
.PP
If
.I type
is
.BR PM_LABEL_INSTANCES ,
then
.I instance
should match an instance number of the selected domain. Otherwise
.I instance
is ignored.
.PP
.I name
is a string containing the name of the label to be added.
.PP
.I value
is a string containing the value of the label to be added.
.PP
No data will be written until
.BR pmiWrite (3)
is called, so multiple calls to
.B pmiPutLabel
are typically used to accumulate several labels before calling
.BR pmiWrite (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiPutLabel
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiPutResult (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3),
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
.BR pmiPutText (3)
and
.BR pmiWrite (3).
