'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018,2026 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMIPUTVALUEHANDLE 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiPutAtomValueHandle\f1,
\f3pmiPutValueHandle\f1 \- add a value for a metric-instance pair via a handle
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiPutAtomValueHandle(int \fIhandle\fP, pmAtomValue *\fIatom\fP);
.br
int pmiPutValueHandle(int \fIhandle\fP, const char *\fIvalue\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiPutValueHandle($\fIhandle\fP, $\fIvalue\fP);
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiPutAtomValueHandle
and
.B pmiPutValueHandle
add a single value to the current output record for a given
metric and instance, using the
.I handle
defined by an earlier call to
.BR pmiGetHandle (3).
.PP
With
.B pmiPutAtomValueHandle
the
.I atom
passes the binary value directly using a union of types.
.PP
In the case of
.B pmiPutValueHandle
the
.I value
should be in a format consistent with the metric's type as
defined in the call to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3).
.PP
No data will be written until
.BR pmiWrite (3)
is called, so multiple calls to
.BR pmiPutAtomValueHandle ,
.B pmiPutValueHandle
or
.BR pmiPutValue (3)
are typically used to accumulate data values for several
metric-instance pairs before calling
.BR pmiWrite (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiPutAtomValueHandle
and
.B pmiPutValueHandle
return zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiGetHandle (3),
.BR pmiPutResult (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3),
.BR pmiPutText (3),
.BR pmiPutLabel (3)
and
.BR pmiWrite (3).
