'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMISETIMPORTPROGRAM 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiSetImportProgram\f1 \- register an import tool with pmdapmimport
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiSetImportProgram(const char *\fItool\fP, const char *\fIversion\fP, const char *\fIargs\fP, const char *\fIarchive\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiSetImportProgram
registers the running import tool with
.BR pmdapmimport (1)
so that its status is visible through the
.B pmimport.*
metric family.
.PP
The function writes a sidecar status file to
.B PCP_IMPORT_DIR
(typically
.IR /run/pmimport )
named after
.IR tool .
The file is a simple
.I key=value
text format containing a subset of the following fields:
.TP
.B pid=
The process ID of the import tool, written only when the
.B PMI_PROCESS
flag was passed to
.BR pmiStart (3).
Long-running daemons should use this flag so that
.BR pmdapmimport (1)
can detect and suppress stale entries left by an unclean exit.
One-shot tools (e.g. those invoked periodically from a cron job)
should omit the flag; their sidecar files persist between invocations
and are always considered live.
.TP
.B version=
The
.I version
string supplied by the caller (skipped if NULL or empty).
.TP
.B args=
The
.I args
string supplied by the caller (skipped if NULL or empty).
Typically a summary of the subsystems or data sources being imported,
for display by
.BR pcp (1).
.TP
.B archive=
The
.I archive
base path supplied by the caller (skipped if NULL or empty).
.PP
The sidecar file is removed automatically when
.BR pmiEnd (3)
is called, so no explicit cleanup is required on a clean exit.
.PP
.B pmiSetImportProgram
should be called once after
.BR pmiStart (3)
and before the first call to
.BR pmiWrite (3).
Calling it again with updated arguments (e.g. after an archive
rotation) is permitted and overwrites the existing sidecar file.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns zero on success.
.B PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT
is returned if there is no current import context.
.B PM_ERR_CONV
is returned if
.I tool
is NULL or empty.
Any error opening or writing the sidecar file causes the corresponding
negated
.BR errno (3)
value to be returned.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $PCP_IMPORT_DIR/<tool>
Sidecar status file for the named import tool.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pcp (1),
.BR pmdapmimport (1),
.BR pmiEnd (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiStart (3),
.BR pmiWrite (3)
and
.BR pmiWriteNow (3).
