'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMISETVERSION 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiSetVersion\f1 \- set the archive version for a LOGIMPORT archive
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiSetVersion(int \fIvalue\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH PERL SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiSetVersion($\fIvalue\fP);
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH PYTHON SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
from pcp import pmi
.sp
log = pmi.pmiLogImport(\fIpath\fP).pmiSetVersion(\fIvalue\fP)
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiSetVersion
sets the output archive version in the current context to be
.IR value .
.PP
In the absence of a call to
.B pmiSetVersion
the version currently defaults to the traditional v2 format.
In a future major version of PCP it will default to v3 format.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiSetVersion
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiSetHostname (3),
.BR pmiSetTimezone (3)
and
.BR pmiStart (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ pmi {from pcp import pmi}
