'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMISETHOSTNAME 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiSetHostname\f1 \- set the source host name for a LOGIMPORT archive
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiSetHostname(const char *\fIvalue\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiSetHostname($\fIvalue\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiSetHostname
sets the source hostname in the current context to be
.IR value .
.PP
In the absence of a call to
.B pmiSetHostname
the source hostname defaults to the hostname of the localhost.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiSetHostname
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiSetTimezone (3)
and
.BR pmiStart (3).
