'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMISETVOLUMESIZE 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiSetVolumeSize\f1 \- configure automatic data volume rotation for a LOGIMPORT archive
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiSetVolumeSize(size_t \fImax_bytes\fP, void (*\fIon_rotate\fP)(const char *));
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiSetVolumeSize
configures automatic data volume rotation for the archive associated
with the current context.
.PP
After each successful call to
.BR pmiHighResWrite (3)
or
.BR pmiWrite (3),
if the current data volume file size meets or exceeds
.IR max_bytes ,
the library closes the current data volume, opens the next numbered
volume, and writes a new volume label.
Volume files are named
.IB archive .0 ,
.IB archive .1 ,
and so on, where
.I archive
is the base path given to
.BR pmiStart (3).
The
.I .meta
and
.I .index
files are shared across all volumes and remain open throughout.
.PP
If
.I on_rotate
is not NULL, it is called immediately after the old volume is closed
and before the function returns.
The single argument is the full path of the just-closed volume file
(e.g.\&
.IR /var/log/sa/pcp16/pcp16.0 ).
The caller may use this callback to compress the completed volume or
perform any other post-rotation work.
The callback is invoked synchronously; long-running operations should
be deferred to a child process.
.PP
Passing
.I max_bytes
as zero disables volume rotation (the default).
.PP
.B pmiSetVolumeSize
interacts with the existing
.B PCP_LOGIMPORT_MAXLOGSZ
environment variable: both mechanisms trigger
.BR newvolume ()
independently, so if both are active the smaller threshold governs.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following fragment opens a PCP archive, configures 100\ MB
volume rotation, and compresses each completed volume:
.PP
.nf
.ft 3
static void
on_vol(const char *path)
{
    char cmd[MAXPATHLEN + 32];
    pmsprintf(cmd, sizeof(cmd), "xz %s &", path);
    system(cmd);
}

pmiStart("/var/log/sa/pcp16/pcp16", 0);
pmiSetVolumeSize(100 * 1024 * 1024, on_vol);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiSetVolumeSize
returns zero on success.
If there is no current context,
.B PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT
is returned.
If
.I max_bytes
is greater than zero but does not exceed the on-disk label size for the
configured archive version (124 bytes for v2, 800 bytes for v3),
.B PM_ERR_CONV
is returned.
A threshold at or below the label size would cause the new volume's label
to immediately exceed the threshold on every write, triggering a
rotation cascade.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiEnd (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiHighResWrite (3),
.BR pmiStart (3),
.BR pmiWrite (3)
and
.BR pmlogcheck (1).
