'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMIUNITS 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiUnits\f1,
\f3pmiExtraUnits\f1,
\f3pmiID\f1,
\f3pmiInDom\f1 \- construct core metric data structures
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
pmID pmiID(int \fIdomain\fP, int \fIcluster\fP, int \fIitem\fP);
.br
pmInDom pmiInDom(int \fIdomain\fP, int \fIserial\fP);
.br
pmUnits pmiUnits(int \fIdimSpace\fP,
'in +\w'pmUnits pmiUnits('u
int\ \fIdimTime\fP,
int\ \fIdimCount\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIscaleSpace\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIscaleTime\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIscaleCount\fP);
.in
.br
pmUnits pmiExtraUnits(int \fIdimSpace\fP,
'in +\w'pmExtraUnits pmiUnits('u
int\ \fIdimTime\fP,
int\ \fIdimCount\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIscaleSpace\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIscaleTime\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIscaleCount\fP,
int \fIextraUnit\fP,
unsigned\ int\ \fIextraScale\fP);
.in
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
$pmid = pmiID($\fIdomain\fP, $\fIcluster\fP, $\fIitem\fP);
.br
$indom = pmiInDom($\fIdomain\fP, $\fIserial\fP);
.br
$units = pmiUnits($\fIdimSpace\fP,
'in +\w'$units = pmiUnits('u
$\fIdimTime\fP,
$\fIdimCount\fP,
$\fIscaleSpace\fP,
$\fIscaleTime\fP,
$\fIscaleCount\fP);
.in
.br
$units = pmiExtraUnits($\fIdimSpace\fP,
'in +\w'$units = pmiExtraUnits('u
$\fIdimTime\fP,
$\fIdimCount\fP,
$\fIscaleSpace\fP,
$\fIscaleTime\fP,
$\fIscaleCount\fP,
$\fIextraUnit\fP,
$\fIextraScale\fP);
.in
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH "Python SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
from pcp import pmi
.sp
\fIpmid\fP = pmi.pmiLogImport.pmiID(\fIdomain\fP, \fIcluster\fP, \fIitem\fP)
.br
\fIindom\fP = pmi.pmiLogImport.pmiInDom(\fIdomain\fP, \fIserial\fP)
.br
\fIunits\fP = pmi.pmiLogImport.pmiUnits(\fIdim_space\fP, \fIdim_time\fP, \fIdim_count\fP,
'in +\w'pmi.pmiLogImport.pmiUnits('u
\fIscale_space\fP, \fIscale_time\fP, \fIscale_count\fP)
.in
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
these routines provide
convenience methods (especially for script use) for constructing
.BR pmID ,
.B pmInDom
and
.B pmUnits
structures respectively, to be used in subsequent calls to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3)
and
.BR pmiAddInstance (3).
.PP
Refer to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a complete description of the values and semantics of the
components of a
.B pmUnits
structure, and hence the valid argument values for
.B pmiUnits
and
.BR pmiExtraUnits .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3)
and
.BR pmLookupDesc (3).
