'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIUSECONTEXT 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiUseContext\f1 \- change LOGIMPORT context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiUseContext(int \fIcontext\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiUseContext($\fIcontext\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
.B pmiUseContext
may be used by applications wishing to generate more than
one PCP archive concurrently.
.PP
The
.I context
argument is a value returned from a previous call to
.BR pmStart (3)
and on successful return from
.BR pmiUseContext ,
the current context will have been changed to the one identified
by
.IR context .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pmiUseContext
returns zero on success else a negative value that can be turned into an
error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3)
and
.BR pmiStart (3).
