'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018,2026 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMIWRITE 3 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiWrite\f1,
\f3pmiWrite2\f1,
\f3pmiHighResWrite\f1 \- flush data to a LOGIMPORT archive
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/import.h>
.sp
int pmiWrite(int \fIsec\fP, int \fIusec\fP);
.br
int pmiWrite2(int64_t \fIsec\fP, int \fIusec\fP);
.br
int pmiHighResWrite(int64_t \fIsec\fP, int \fInsec\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_import \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH "Perl SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
use PCP::LogImport;
.sp
pmiWrite($\fIsec\fP, $\fIusec\fP);
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH "Python SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
from pcp import pmi
.sp
log.pmiWrite(\fIsec\fP, \fIusec\fP)
.br
log.pmiHighResWrite(\fIsec\fP, \fInsec\fP)
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As part of the Performance Co-Pilot Log Import API (see
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)),
these routines flush accumulated data values out to the PCP archive.
.PP
The data values and associated metadata have previously been
built up using calls to
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3)
and
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3).
.PP
The current set of data values and any new metadata is written to the archive
with the specified timestamp in the source timezone of the archive
(see
.BR pmiSetTimezone (3)).
.PP
.B pmiHighResWrite
is the preferred interface.
It accepts a nanosecond-resolution timestamp: seconds since the Unix epoch
as a 64-bit signed integer
.RI ( sec )
and nanoseconds within that second
.RI ( nsec ).
Using a 64-bit
.I sec
argument makes
.B pmiHighResWrite
safe beyond the year 2038, unlike
.BR pmiWrite .
.PP
.B pmiWrite2
is equivalent to
.B pmiHighResWrite
except that the sub-second component is specified in microseconds
rather than nanoseconds.
.PP
.B pmiWrite
is deprecated.
Its 32-bit
.I sec
argument overflows in January 2038 and callers should migrate to
.B pmiHighResWrite
(or
.BR pmiWrite2 ).
Passing a negative value for
.I sec
to any of these routines causes the current wall-clock time to be
used as the timestamp.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All three routines return zero on success, else a negative value that
can be turned into an error message by calling
.BR pmiErrStr (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pmiAddInstance (3),
.BR pmiAddMetric (3),
.BR pmiErrStr (3),
.BR pmiPutValue (3),
.BR pmiPutValueHandle (3),
.BR pmiPutText (3),
.BR pmiPutLabel (3)
and
.BR pmiSetTimezone (3).
