'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMLOOKUPINDOM 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMLOOKUPINDOM 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMLOOKUPINDOM 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMLOOKUPINDOM 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMLOOKUPINDOM "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmLookupInDom\f1,
\f3pmRequestInDomInst\f1,
\f3pmReceiveInDomInst\f1 \- translate an instance name into an instance identifier
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmLookupInDom(pmInDom indom, const char *name)
int pmRequestInDomInst(int ctx, pmInDom indom, const char *name)
int pmReceiveInDomInst(int ctx)
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
For the instance domain
.IR indom ,
in the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context,
locate the instance with the external identification given by
.IR name ,
and return the internal instance identifier. 
.PP
Only the leading
non-space characters of
.I name
will be used to identify the instance.
.PP
The value for the instance domain
.I indom
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
.B pmLookupInDom
will return a positive instance identifier on success.
.PP
\f3pmRequestInDomInst\fP and \f3pmReceiveInDomInst\fP are used by applications
which must  communicate with the PMCD asynchronously.  These functions
take explict context handle \f2ctx\fP which must refer to a host
context (i.e. created by passing \f3PM_CONTEXT_HOST\fP to
\f3pmNewContext\fP). \f3pmRequestInDomInst\fP sends request to translate
external instance name to internal instance identifier to 
PMCD and returns without waiting for the response, \f3pmReceiveInDomInst\fP
reads reply from PMCD. It is the responsibility of the application
to make sure the data are ready before calling \f3pmReceiveInDomInst\f1 to
avoid blocking.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmGetInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmNameInDom (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_INDOM\f1
.I indom
is not a valid instance domain identifier
.IP \f3PM_ERR_INST\f1
The external instance
.I name
is not known for the instance domain
.I indom
in the current PMAPI context
.IP \f3PM_ERR_CTXBUSY\f1
Context is currently in use by another asynchronous call.
