'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMLOCALTIME 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMLOCALTIME 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMLOCALTIME 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMLOCALTIME 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMLOCALTIME "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmLocaltime\f1 \- convert the date and time for a reporting timezone
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <time.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
struct tm *pmLocaltime(const time_t *clock, struct tm *result)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmLocaltime
is very similar to
.BR localtime (3),
except the timezone used is the current ``reporting timezone'' (rather than the
default
.B TZ
environment variable scheme), and the result is returned into a
caller-declared buffer (rather than a private buffer).
.PP
Like
.BR localtime (3)
the time to be converted is passed via
.IR clock ,
and 
the
.I result 
contains the components broken out in the elements of the
.I tm
struct.
.PP
.B pmLocaltime
returns
.I result
as the value of the function.
.PP
The default current reporting timezone is as defined by the
.B TZ
environment variable, so
.B pmLocaltime
and
.BR localtime (3)
will initially produce a similar encoding of the date and time.
.PP
Use
.BR pmNewZone (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3)
or
.BR pmUseZone (3)
to establish a new current reporting timezone that will affect
.B pmLocaltime
but not
.BR localtime (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR localtime (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmCtime (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3),
.BR pmNewZone (3),
.BR pmUseZone (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
