'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMLOOKUPINDOMTEXT 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmLookupInDomText\f1,
\f3pmRequestInDomText\f1 \- return text describing a performance metrics instance domain
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmLookupInDomText(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int \fIlevel\fP, char **\fIbuffer\fP);
int pmRequestInDomText(int \fIctx\fP, pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int \fIlevel\fP);
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
Provided the source of metrics from
the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context is a host,
retrieve descriptive text about the performance
metrics instance domain identified by
.IR indom .
.PP
The value for the instance domain
.I indom
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
The argument
.I level
should be 
.BR PM_TEXT_ONELINE
for a one-line summary, else
.BR PM_TEXT_HELP
for a more verbose description, suited to a help dialog. 
.PP
The space pointed to by
.I buffer
will have been allocated in
.B pmLookupInDomText
with
.BR malloc (3C),
and it is the responsibility of the caller to
.BR free (3C)
the space when it is no longer required.
.PP
.B pmLookupInDomText
returns zero on success.
.PP
\f3pmRequestInDomText\fP and \f3pmReceiveText\fP are used by
applications which must communicate with the PMCD asynchronously.
These functions take explicit context handle \f2ctx\fP which must refer
to a host context (i.e. created by passing \f3PM_CONTEXT_HOST\fP to
\f3pmNewContext\fP). \f3pmRequestInDomText\fP sends request to PMCD
to provide descriptive text about performance metrics instance domain
identified by \f2indom\f1 and returns without waiting for the response,
\f3pmReceiveText\fP reads reply from PMCD. It is the responsibility
of the application to make sure the data are ready before calling
\f3pmReceiveText\fP to avoid blocking.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chkhelp (1),
.BR newhelp (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupText (3),
.BR pmReceiveText (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTHOST\f1
if the current PMAPI context is an archive log
(help and one-line text is not maintained in the archive logs)
.IP \f3PM_ERR_CTXBUSY\f1
Context is currently in use by another asynchronous call.
