'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMLOOKUPTEXT 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMLOOKUPTEXT 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMLOOKUPTEXT 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMLOOKUPTEXT 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMLOOKUPTEXT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmLookupText\f1,
\f3pmRequestText\f1,
\f3pmReceiveText\f1 \- return text describing a performance metric
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.nf
int pmLookupText(pmID pmid, int level, char **buffer)
int pmRequestText(int ctx, pmID pmid, int level)
int pmReceiveText(int ctx, char **buffer)
.fi
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provided the source of metrics from
the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context is a host,
retrieve descriptive text about the performance
metric identified by
.IR pmid .
.PP
The argument
.I level
should be 
.BR PM_TEXT_ONELINE
for a one-line summary, else
.BR PM_TEXT_HELP
for a more verbose description, suited to a help dialog. 
.PP
The space pointed to by
.I buffer
will have been allocated in
.B pmLookupText
with
.BR malloc (3C),
and it is the responsibility of the caller to
.BR free (3C)
the space when it is no longer required.
.PP
.B pmLookupText
returns zero on success.
.PP
\f3pmRequestText\fP and \f3pmReceiveText\fP are used by applications
which must  communicate with the PMCD asynchronously.  These functions
take explict context handle \f2ctx\fP which must refer to a host
context (i.e. created by passing \f3PM_CONTEXT_HOST\fP to
\f3pmNewContext\fP). \f3pmRequestText\fP sends request to
PMCD to provide descriptive text about a metric identified by a PMID and 
returns without waiting for the response, \f3pmReceiveText\fP reads reply from
PMCD. It is the responsibility of the application
to make sure the data are ready before calling \f3pmReceiveText\f1 to
avoid blocking.
.PP
\f3pmReceiveText\fP can be used to receive replies from either
\f3pmRequestText\fP or \f3pmRequestInDomText\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chkhelp (1),
.BR newhelp (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupInDomText (3),
.BR pmRequestInDomText (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTHOST\f1
if the current PMAPI context is an archive log
(help and one-line text is not maintained in the archive logs)
.IP \f3PM_ERR_CTXBUSY\f1
Context is currently in use by another asynchronous call
