'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMLOOKUPIPC 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmAddIPC\f1,
\f3__pmLookupIPC\f1,
\f3__pmFdLookupIPC\f1,
\f3__pmOverrideLastFd\f1,
\f3__pmPrintIPC\f1,
\f3__pmResetIPC\f1 \- IPC version infrastructure support
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.sp
int __pmAddIPC(int \fIfd\fP, __pmIPC \fIipc\fP);
.br
int __pmLookupIPC(__pmIPC **\fIipcp\fP);
.br
int __pmFdLookupIPC(int \fIfd\fP, __pmIPC **\fIipcp\fP);
.br
void __pmOverrideLastFd(int \fIfd\fP);
.br
void __pmPrintIPC(void);
.br
void __pmResetIPC(int \fIfd\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
IPC channels throughout the distributed PCP framework are affected by the
PCP 2.0 (and later) PDU changes.  These functions are the interface to the libpcp IPC
connection management global data.  This data consists of a hash table of
__pmIPC structures (indexed by file descriptor) and a cached, most-recently-used
file descriptor.
.PP
Newly created IPC channels must be registered with the hash table using
\f3__pmAddIPC\f1, such that the PDU sending and decoding routines can
determine whether they need to perform any PDU version translations or not,
for backward compatibility with previous the PCP 1.x IPC protocol.
.PP
.B __pmLookupIPC
and
.B __pmFdLookupIPC
both provide handles to the __pmIPC structure associated with the given file
descriptor, as previously established by a call to
.BR __pmAddIPC .
The difference between the two is that one allows an explicit file descriptor
lookup, and the other uses the cached, most-recently-used file descriptor.
So
.B __pmLookupIPC
actually calls
.B __pmFdLookupIPC
using this cached file descriptor as the argument.  The justification for having
both is that in some places it is not possible to use
.B __pmFdLookupIPC
(which is preferred), since at that particular level of the PMAPI a file
descriptor is not available (see the __pmDecodeError code for an example).
.PP
The
.B __pmOverrideLastFd
is an escape mechanism for use in those situations where the last PDU 
fetch did not go through the usual channels (ie. __pmGetPDU), so as to ensure
that the cached file descriptor is the correct file descriptor for the PDU
which is currently being processed.  This will typically be used for archive
PDU processing or where version information is not available for a given file
descriptor (eg. immediately prior to a PDU version exchange).
.PP
.B __pmPrintIPC
is a useful debugging routine for displaying a table mapping all currently
registered file descriptors to their associated PDU version numbers.  Unused
entries in this table should display the value zero in the version column.
.PP
.B __pmResetIPC
resets the version information associated with the given file descriptor to some
known (invalid) number.  Subsequent lookups on this file descriptor will return
an UNKNOWN_VERSION embedded within the __pmIPC structure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A negative return value from \f3__pmLookupIPC\f1 indicates that the requested
file descriptor is not registered in the hash table.
This typically indicates closure of an IPC channel, so PM_ERR_IPC is returned
if this is the case.
