'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Red Hat.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMMERGELABELS 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmMergeLabels\f1,
\f3pmMergeLabelSets\f1 \- merge sets of performance metric labels
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmMergeLabels(char **\fIsets\fP, int \fInsets\fP, char *\fIbuffer\fP, int \fIlength\fP);
.sp
.ti -8n
int pmMergeLabelSets(pmLabelSet **\fIsets\fP, int \fInsets\fP, char *\fIbuffer\fP, int \fIlength\fP, int (*\fIfilter\fP)(const pmLabel *, const char *, void *), void *\fIarg\fP);
.sp
.in
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmMergeLabels
takes multiple (\c
.IR nsets )
performance metric label
.I sets
and merges them into a single result
.I buffer
of
.I length
bytes.
Both the input
.I sets
and the result
.I buffer
are
.IR name : value
pairs in the "JSONB" format described on
.BR pmLookupLabels (3).
.PP
The
.B pmMergeLabelSets
interface serves the same purpose, but allows for indexed
.I sets
of labels to be merged.
The format of the
.I pmLabelSet
data structure is described in detail in
.BR pmLookupLabels (3).
.PP
Although names may repeat across the provided label
.IR sets ,
duplicate names are not allowed in the final
.IR buffer .
Any label names occuring in more than one of the input label
.I sets
are reduced to one using the rules described in the "PRECEDENCE"
section of
.BR pmLookupLabels .
The position of each element in the
.I sets
array is significant in terms of the precedence rules \- earlier
positions are taken to be of lower precedence to later positions.
.PP
Values must be primitive JSON entities (e.g. numbers, strings),
one-dimensional arrays or maps (i.e. simple associative arrays).
.PP
In addition to using indexed label
.I sets
the
.B pmMergeLabelSets
interface provides an optional
.I filter
callback function.
If non-NULL, this function will be called for each label that
would be added to the output
.IR buffer ,
allowing finer-grained control over the final merged set.
This mechanism can be used to
.I filter
individual labels based on their name, value, and/or flags.
If the
.I filter
function returns zero (false), then the given label is filtered
from the resulting set.
Any non-zero return value indicates that the label should be
included in the
.IR buffer .
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On success, both
.B pmMergeLabels
and
.B pmMergeLabelSets
returns the number of bytes written into the supplied
.IR buffer .
.PP
Failure to parse the input strings, failure to allocate memory, or any
internal inconsistencies found will result in a negative return code.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmLookupLabels (3).
