'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMMKTIME 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMMKTIME 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMMKTIME 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMMKTIME 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMMKTIME "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3__pmMktime\f1 \- convert a \fBtm\fR structure to a calendar time
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <time.h>
.br
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.sp
time_t *__pmMktime(struct tm *timeptr)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B __pmMktime
is very similar to
.BR mktime (3),
except the timezone used is the current ``reporting timezone'' (rather than the
default
.B TZ
environment variable scheme).
.PP
Like
.BR mktime (3)
the time to be converted is passed via
.IR timeptr ,
and 
the function result 
contains the calendar time (the number of seconds since 00:00:00 UTC,
January 1, 1970).
.PP
The default current reporting timezone is as defined by the
.B TZ
environment variable, so
.B __pmMktime
and
.BR mktime (3)
will initially produce similar conversions.
.PP
Use
.BR pmNewZone (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3)
or
.BR pmUseZone (3)
to establish a new current reporting timezone that will effect
.B __pmMktime
but not
.BR mktime (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mktime (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmCtime (3),
.BR pmLocaltime (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3),
.BR pmNewZone (3)
and
.BR pmUseZone (3).
