'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMNAMEINDOMARCHIVE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmNameInDomArchive\f1 \- translate an instance identifier into an instance name
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmNameInDomArchive(pmInDom \fIindom\fP, int \fIinst\fP, char **\fIname\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
Provided that the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context is associated with an archive log,
.B pmNameInDomArchive
will scan the union of all the instance domain metadata
for the instance domain
.IR indom ,
locate the first instance with the internal instance identifier given
by 
.IR inst ,
and return the full external instance identification via
.IR name .
.PP
This routine is a specialized version of the more general PMAPI
routine
.BR pmNameInDom .
.PP
The value for the instance domain
.I indom
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
The space for the value of
.I name
will have been allocated in
.B pmNameInDomArchive
with
.BR malloc (3C),
and it is the responsibility of the caller to
.BR free (3C)
the space when it is no longer required.
.PP
.B pmNameInDomArchive
returns zero on success.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmGetInDomArchive (3),
.BR pmLookupInDomArchive (3),
.BR pmNameInDom (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOTARCHIVE\f1
the current PMAPI context is not associated with an archive log
.IP \f3PM_ERR_INDOM_LOG\f1
.I indom
is not a defined instance domain identifier for the archive log
.IP \f3PM_ERR_INST_LOG\f1
the instance identifier
.I inst
is not known for the instance domain
.I indom
in the archive log
