'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMNEWCONTEXT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmNewContext\f1 \- establish a new PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmNewContext(int \fItype\fP, const char *\fIname\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
An application using the
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
may manipulate several concurrent contexts,
each associated with a source of performance metrics, e.g. \c
.BR pmcd (1)
on some host, or a set of archive logs of performance metrics as created by
.BR pmlogger (1),
or a standalone connection on the local host that does not involve
.BR pmcd (1).
.PP
.BR pmNewContext
may be used to establish a new context.
The source of the metrics is identified by
.IR name ,
and may be either a host name (\c
.I type
is
.BR PM_CONTEXT_HOST ),
or a comma-separated list of names referring to a set of archive logs (\c
.I type
is
.BR PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE ).
Each element of the list may either be the base name common to all of the
physical files of an archive log or the name of a directory containing
archive logs.
.PP
For a
.I type
of
.BR PM_CONTEXT_HOST ,
in addition to identifying a host
the
.I name
may also be used to encode additional optional information in the form of
a
.BR pmcd (1)
port number, a
.BR pmproxy (1)
hostname and a proxy port number. For example the
.I name
\&"app23:14321,4321@firewall.example.com:11111"
specifies
a connection on port
.I 14321
(or port
.I 4321
if
.I 14321
is unavailable)
to
.BR pmcd (1)
on the host
.I app23
via port
.I 11111
to
.BR pmproxy (1)
on the host
.IR firewall.example.com .
.PP
For a
.I type
of
.BR PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE ,
each element of the list of names in
.I name
may also be the name of any of the physical files of an
archive, e.g.
.IB myarchive .meta
(the metadata file) or
.IB myarchive .index
(the temporal index) or
.IB myarchive .0
(the first data volume of the archive)
or
.IB myarchive .0.bz2
or
.IB myarchive .0.bz
(the first data volume compressed with
.BR bzip2 (1))
or
.IB myarchive .0.gz
or
.IB myarchive .0.Z
or
.IB myarchive .0.z
(the first data volume compressed with
.BR gzip (1)),
.IB myarchive .1
or
.IB myarchive .3.bz2
or
.IB myarchive .42.gz
etc.
.PP
If more than one archive is specified for a
.I type
of
.BR PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE ,
there are some restrictions on the archives within the set:
.IP \(bu 3n
The archives must all have been generated on the same host.
.IP \(bu 3n
The archives must not overlap in time.
.IP \(bu 3n
The archives must all have been created using the same time zone.
.IP \(bu 3n
The \f2PMID\fP of each metric should be the same in all of the archives.
Multiple \f2PMID\fPs are currently tolerated by using the first \f2PMID\fP
defined for each metric and ignoring subsequent \f2PMID\fPs.
.IP \(bu 3n
The type of each metric must be the same in all of the archives.
.IP \(bu 3n
The semantics of each metric must be the same in all of the archives.
.IP \(bu 3n
The units of each metric must be the same in all of the archives.
.IP \(bu 3n
The instance domain of each metric must be the same in all of the archives.
.PP
In the case where
.I type
is
.BR PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL ,
.I name
is ignored, and the context uses a standalone connection to the
PMDA methods used by
.BR pmcd (1).
When this type of context is used, the range of accessible performance
metrics is constrained to those from the operating system, and optionally
the ``proc'', ``sample'' and ``ib'' PMDAs.
.PP
In the case where \f2type\fP is \f3PM_CONTEXT_HOST\fP, additional flags can
be added to the \f2type\fP to indicate if the connection to \f3pmcd\fP(1)
should be encrypted (\f3PM_CTXFLAG_SECURE\fP), deferred (\f3PM_CTXFLAG_SHALLOW\fP)
and if the file descriptor used to communicate with \f3pmcd\fP(1), should not be
shared across contexts (\f3PM_CTXFLAG_EXCLUSIVE\fP).
Both the \f3PM_CTXFLAG_SHALLOW\fP and \f3PM_CTXFLAG_EXCLUSIVE\fP flags are
now deprecated and ignored.
.PP
The initial instance
profile is set up to select all instances in all instance domains. 
In the case of a set of archives,
the initial collection time is also set to zero,
so that an initial
.BR pmFetch (3)
will result in the earliest set of metrics 
being returned from the set of archives. 
.PP
Once established, the association between a context and a source of metrics
is fixed for the life of the context, however routines are provided to
independently manipulate both the instance profile (see
.BR pmAddProfile (3)
and
.BR pmDelProfile (3))
and the collection time for archives (see
.BR pmSetMode (3)).
.PP
.B pmNewContext
returns a handle that may be used with subsequent calls to
.BR pmUseContext (3).
.PP
The new context remains the current PMAPI context for all
subsequent calls across the PMAPI,
until another call to
.BR pmNewContext (3)
is made, or the context is explicitly changed with a call to
.BR pmDupContext (3)
or
.BR pmUseContext (3),
or destroyed using
.BR pmDestroyContext (3).
.PP
When attempting to connect to a remote
.BR pmcd (1)
on a machine that is booting,
.B pmNewContext
could potentially block for a long time until the remote machine
finishes its initialization.
.B pmNewContext
will abort and return an error if the connection has not been established after
some specified interval has elapsed.  The default interval is 5
seconds.  This may be modified by setting
.B PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
in the environment to a real number of seconds for the
desired timeout.
This is most useful in cases where the remote host is at
the end of a slow network, requiring longer latencies to
establish the connection correctly.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
Timeout period (in seconds) for
.BR pmcd (1)
connection attempts.
.TP
.B PMCD_PORT
TCP/IP port(s) for connecting to
.BR pmcd (1),
historically was 4321 and more recently the officially registered port
44321; in the current release,
.B pmcd
listens on both these ports as a transitional arrangement.  If used,
should be set to a comma-separated list of numerical port numbers.
.TP
.B PMDA_PATH
When searching for PMDAs to be loaded when
.I type
is
.BR PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL ,
the
.B PMDA_PATH
environment variable may be used to define a search path of
directories to be used to locate the PMDA executables.
The default search path is
.BR $PCP_SHARE_DIR/lib:/usr/pcp/lib .
.SH CAVEATS
When using a
.I type
of
.BR PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL ,
the operating system PMDA may export data structures directly
from the kernel, which means that the
.B pmNewContext
caller should be an
executable program compiled for the same object code format
as the booted kernel.
.P
In addition, applications using a
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
context
must be single-threaded because the various DSO PMDAs may not be
thread-safe.  This restriction is enforced at the
.BR PMAPI (3),
where routines may return the error code
.B PM_ERR_THREAD
if the library detects calls from more than one thread.
.P
Applications that use
.BR gethostbyname (3)
should exercise caution because the static fields in
.I "struct hostent"
may not be preserved across some
.BR PMAPI (3)
calls.
In particular,
.BR pmNewContext (3)
and
.BR pmReconnectContext (3)
both may call
.BR gethostbyname (3)
internally.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmAddProfile (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmDelProfile (3),
.BR pmDestroyContext (3),
.BR pmDupContext (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmReconnectContext (3),
.BR pmSetMode (3),
.BR pmUseContext (3),
.BR pmWhichContext (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
.B PM_ERR_PERMISSION
.IP
No permission to perform requested operation
.P
.B PM_ERR_CONNLIMIT
.IP
PMCD connection limit for this host exceeded
.P
.B PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT
.IP
Requested context type was not 
.BR PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL , 
.B PM_CONTEXT_HOST 
or 
.BR PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE .
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGOVERLAP
.IP
Archives overlap in time
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGHOST
.IP
Archives differ by host
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGTIMEZONE
.IP
Archives differ by time zone.
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGCHANGETYPE
.IP
The type of a metric differs among archives
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGCHANGESEM
.IP
The semantics of a metric differs among archives
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGCHANGEINDOM
.IP
The instance domain of a metric differs among archives
.P
.B PM_ERR_LOGCHANGEUNITS
.IP
The units of a metric differs among archives
