'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMNEWZONE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMNEWZONE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMNEWZONE 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMNEWZONE 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMNEWZONE "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmNewZone\f1 \- establish a reporting timezone
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmNewZone(const char *tz)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The current reporting timezone affects the timezone used by
.BR pmCtime (3)
and
.BR pmLocaltime (3).
.PP
The argument
.I tz
defines a timezone string, in the format described for the
.B TZ
environment variable, see
.BR environ (5).
.PP
.B pmNewZone
sets the current reporting timezone, and returns a value that may be
used in a subsequent call to
.BR pmUseZone (3)
to restore this reporting timezone.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmCtime (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLocaltime (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3),
.BR pmUseZone (3),
.BR pmWhichZone (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4),
.BR pcp.env (4)
and
.BR environ (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A return value less than zero indicates a fatal error from a system call,
most likely
.BR malloc (3C).
