'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMNEWCONTEXTZONE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmNewContextZone\f1 \- establish a reporting timezone based on a PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmNewContextZone(void);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The current reporting timezone affects the timezone used by
.BR pmCtime (3)
and
.BR pmLocaltime (3).
.PP
If the current PMAPI context is an archive,
.B pmNewContextZone
uses the timezone from the archive label record to
set the current reporting timezone.
.PP
If the current PMAPI context
corresponds to a host source of metrics,
.B pmNewContextZone
executes a
.BR pmFetch (3)
to retrieve the value for the metric
.CW pmcd.timezone
and uses that to set the current reporting timezone.
.PP
In both cases,
.B pmNewContextZone
returns a value to identify the current reporting timezone
that may be
used in a subsequent call to
.BR pmUseZone (3)
to restore this reporting timezone.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmCtime (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLocaltime (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmNewZone (3),
.BR pmUseZone (3),
.BR pmWhichZone (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR environ (7).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT
the current PMAPI context is not valid
.TP
other
a return value less than zero indicates a fatal error from a system call,
most likely
.BR malloc (3C)
