'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMNOTIFYERR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmNotifyErr\f1,
\f3pmSyslog\f1 \- standard handling of error messages
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
void pmNotifyErr(int \fIpriority\fP, const char *\fImessage\fP, ...);
.br
void pmSyslog(int \fIonoff\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provide standard handling for error messages from
within the internals of
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) daemons and Performance Metric Domain
Agents (PMDAs).
.PP
.B pmNotifyErr
is a
.BR printf (3)
style function that will format
.I message
(and any subsequent arguments)
with a prefix that includes
the current date and time from
.BR ctime (3),
the name of the application from
.BR pmGetProgname (3),
the process's id from
.BR getpid (2)
and the
.IR priority .
.PP
.I priority
should be one of the level
.B LOG_
macros defined for
.BR syslog (3).
Most typically this would be
.BR LOG_INFO ,
.B LOG_WARNING
or
.BR LOG_ERR .
.PP
.B pmNotifyErr
writes to standard error, which for daemons and PMDAs has most likely
been redirected to a log file using
.BR pmOpenLog (3).
Additionally
.I message
(and any subsequent arguments)
may be sent forwarded to
.BR syslog (3)
if
.B pmSyslog
has previously been called with
.I onoff
having a non-zero value.
.PP
Forwarding to
.BR syslog (3)
can be disabled at any time by calling
.B pmSyslog
with
.I onoff
having a zero value, and this is the starting state for each PCP
application.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpid (2),
.BR ctime (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetProgname (3),
.BR pmOpenLog (3),
.BR printf (3)
and
.BR syslog (3).
