'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMNUMBERSTR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmNumberStr\f1,
\f3pmNumberStr_r\f1 \- fixed width output format for numbers
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
const char *pmNumberStr(double \fIvalue\fP);
.br
char *pmNumberStr_r(double \fIvalue\fP, char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmNumberStr
returns the address of a 8-byte buffer that holds a
null-byte terminated representation of
.I value
suitable for output with fixed width fields.
The
.B pmNumberStr_r
function does the same, but stores the result in a user-supplied buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen ,
which should have room for at least 8 bytes.
.PP
The value is scaled using multipliers in powers of ``one thousand''
(the decimal ``kilo'') and has a bias that provides greater precision for
positive numbers as opposed to negative numbers.
.PP
The format depends on the sign and magnitude of
.I value
as follows (\c
\f(COd\f1
represents a decimal digit):
.TS
box,center;
c | c
lf(CW) | lf(CO).
\f2value\f1 range	format
_
        > 999995000000000	 \f(CBinf?\fP
999995000000000 \- 999995000000	ddd.dd\f(CBT\fP
   999995000000 \- 999995000	ddd.dd\f(CBG\fP
      999995000 \- 999995	ddd.dd\f(CBM\fP
         999995 \- 999.995	ddd.dd\f(CBK\fP
        999.995 \- 0.005	ddd.dd
          0.005 \- \-0.005	\f(CB  0.00\fP
         \-0.005 \- \-99.95	\-dd.dd
        \-99.995 \- \-99995	\-dd.dd\f(CBK\fP
         \-99995 \- \-99995000	\-dd.dd\f(CBM\fP
      \-99995000 \- \-99995000000	\-dd.dd\f(CBG\fP
   \-99995000000 \- \-99995000000000	\-dd.dd\f(CBT\fP
       < \-99995000000000	\f(CB\-inf?\fP
.TE
.PP
At the boundary points of the ranges, the chosen format will retain the
maximum number of significant digits.
.SH NOTES
.B pmNumberStr
returns a pointer to a static buffer and hence is not thread-safe.
Multi-threaded applications should use
.B pmNumberStr_r
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR printf (3)
