'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMPARSEDEBUG 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMPARSEDEBUG 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMPARSEDEBUG 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMPARSEDEBUG 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMPARSEDEBUG "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3__pmParseDebug\f1 \- convert a list of debug flags into an integer
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.sp
int __pmParseDebug(const char *spec)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B __pmParseDebug
parses
.I spec
assuming it to be a comma separated list of PCP debug flags.
.PP
Each flag may be specified as an integer or the
trailing portion of the symbolic name of the corresponding flag as reported
by
.BR pmdbg (1).
Symbolic names are stripped of the ``DBG_TRACE_'' prefix and may appear
in either case.
.PP
As a special case, the values ``-1'' and ``ALL'' are treated as synonyms
for turning on all bits except the sign bit in the result, i.e. \c
.B INT_MAX
from
.IR <limits.h> .
.PP
For example the debug flag
.B DBG_TRACE_FETCH
is defined in
.I /usr/include/pcp/impl.h
and may be specified in
.I spec
as
.BR 2 ,
.B FETCH
or
.BR fetch .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmdbg (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If successful,
.B __pmParseDebug
returns the value computed by the bit-wise ``or'' of each flag in the
.IR spec ,
suitable for assigning to the global debug trace control variable
.BR pmDebug .
Otherwise the return value is less than 0 to indicate a parsing error.
