'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016,2022 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMPARSETIMEWINDOW 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmParseTimeWindow\f1,
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int pmParseTimeWindow(const char *\fIswStart\fP, const\ char\ *\fIswEnd\fP, const\ char\ *\fIswAlign\fP, const\ char\ *\fIswOffset\fP, const\ struct\ timespec\ *\fIlogStart\fP, const\ struct\ timespec\ *\fIlogEnd\fP, struct\ timespec\ *\fIrsltStart\fP, struct\ timespec\ *\fIrsltEnd\fP, struct\ timespec\ *\fIrsltOffset\fP, char\ **\fIerrMsg\fP);
.in
.sp
.hy
.ad
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmParseTimeWindow
are designed to encapsulate the interpretation of the
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-T ,
.B \-A
and
.B \-O
command line options used by Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) applications
to define a time window of interest.
The time window is defined by a start time and an end time that constrains
the time interval during which the PCP application will retrieve and
display performance metrics.
In the absence of the
.B \-O
and
.B \-A
options to specify an initial sample time origin
and time alignment (see below), the PCP application
will retrieve the first sample at the start of the time window.
.P
The syntax and meaning of the various argument formats for these options
is described in
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.SH USAGE
.B pmParseTimeWindow
expect to be called with the argument of the
.B \-S
option as
.BR swStart ,
the argument of the
.B \-T
option as
.BR swEnd ,
the argument of the
.B \-A
option as
.BR swAlign ,
and the argument of the
.B \-O
option as
.BR swOffset .
Any or all of these parameters may be NULL
to indicate that the corresponding command line option was not
present.
.P
If the application is using a set of PCP archives as the source
of performance metrics, you also
need to supply the time of the first archive entry as
.BR logStart ,
and the time of the last archive entry as
.BR logEnd .
See
.BR pmGetArchiveLabel (3)
and
.BR pmGetArchiveEnd (3)
for how to obtain values for these times.
.P
If the application is manipulating multiple concurrent archives,
then the caller must resolve how the default time window
is to be defined (the union of the time intervals in all archives
is a likely interpretation).
.P
If the application is using a live feed of performance data,
.B logStart
should be the current time (but could be aligned on the next second
for example), while
.B logEnd
should have its
.I tv_sec
component set to
.BR PM_MAX_TIME_T .
.P
The
.BR rsltStart ,
.B rsltEnd
and
.B rsltOffset
structures must be allocated before calling
.BR pmParseTimeWindow .
.P
You also need to set the current PCP reporting time zone to correctly
reflect the
.B \-z
and
.B \-Z
command line parameters before calling these routines.
See
.BR pmUseZone (3)
and friends for information on how this is done.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the conversion is successful,
.B pmParseTimeWindow
return 1 and fill in
.BR rsltStart ,
.B rsltEnd
and
.B rsltOffset
with the start, end, and offset times for the time window defined by the input
parameters.
The
.B errMsg
parameter is not changed when either
.BR pmParseTimeWindow
returns 1.
.P
If the conversion is successful, but the requested alignment could not be
performed (e.g. the set of PCP archives is too short) the alignment is
ignored,
.BR rsltStart ,
.B rsltEnd
and
.B rsltOffset
are filled in and
.B pmParseTimeWindow
return 0.
In this case,
.B errMsg
will point to a warning message in a dynamically allocated buffer.
The caller is responsible for releasing the buffer by calling
.BR free (3).
.P
If the argument strings could not be parsed,
.B pmParseTimeWindow
return \-1.
In this case,
.BR errMsg
will point to an error message
in a dynamically allocated buffer.
The caller is responsible for releasing the buffer by calling
.BR free (3).
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Prior to PCP 7.0 and
.I libpcp.so.4
the
\fIlogStart\fP, \fIlogEnd\fP, \fIrsltStart\fP, \fIrsltEnd\fP and \fIrsltOffset\fP
arguments were \f(CRstruct timeval\f(CR.
To support PMAPI transition, the old interface and semantics can be
used if applications are linked with
.I libpcp.so.3
or recompiled with
.BR \-DPMAPI_VERSION=2 .
.PP
For a time in PCP 6.x there was a
routine with the same semantics as the current
.B pmParseTimeWindow
called
.B pmParseHighResTimeWindow
although this is now deprecated and compile-time support for
.B pmParseHighResTimeWindow
will be removed in a future release.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR free (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmGetArchiveEnd (3),
.BR pmGetArchiveLabel (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3),
.BR pmNewZone (3),
.BR pmParseInterval (3)
and
.BR pmUseZone (3).
