'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMPROCESSEXEC 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmProcessAddArg\f1,
\f3__pmProcessUnpickArgs\f1,
\f3__pmProcessExec\f1 \- process execution support
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/impl.h>
.sp
int __pmProcessAddArg(__pmExecCtl_t **\fIhandle\fP, const char *\fIarg\fP);
.br
int __pmProcessUnpickArgs(__pmExecCtl_t **\fIhandle\fP, const char *\fIcommand\fP);
.br
int __pmProcessExec(__pmExecCtl_t **\fIhandle\fP, int \fItoss\fP, int \fIwait\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Within the libraries and applications of the Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) these routines are provide a convenient and safe alternative
to
.BR system (3)
for executing commands in a separate process.
.PP
Use
.B __pmProcessAddArg
to register the executable and command arguments in order.
.I handle
should be set to
.B NULL
before the first call to
.B __pmProcessAddArg
for a particular command execution and it will be set to
an opaque pointer to data structures that are manipulated in
.BR __pmProcessAddArg ,
.B __pmProcessExec
and the related
.BR __pmProcessPipe (3)
routines.
.PP
When called with
.I handle
set to
.B NULL
.I arg
is treated as the name of the command to be
executed and subsequent calls (if any) are for the arguments to that
command.
The name of the command can be a full pathname, or the name of
an executable that can be found on the current
.B $PATH
as per the rules of
.BR execvp (2)
that is used by
.BR __pmProcessExec .
.PP
.B __pmProcessUnpickArgs
is a convenience wrapper to assist conversion of code that assumes
the
.I command
is a shell command that has been prepared for use with
.BR system (3)
or
.BR popen (3)
in existing code.
The arguments in
.I command
are picked off one-by-one and used to call
.BR __pmProcessAddArgs .
The parser is simple, as the routine is designed for simple
shell command syntax, where arguments are separated by one or more spaces
but embedded spaces within an argument are allowed if the arguement is
enclosed in single or double quotes.  More advanced shell syntax like
escape characters and input-output redirection are not recognized.
.PP
Once all the command name and arguments have been registered
calling
.B __pmProcessExec
uses a
.B fork (2)
and
.B execvp (2)
sequence to execute the command.
.PP
The argument
.I toss
may be used to assign some or all of the standard I/O streams
for the command to
.I /dev/null
\- specifically
.I toss
is either
.B PM_EXEC_TOSS_NONE
to keep all I/O streams the same as the parent process, else
the bit-wise or of
.B PM_EXEC_TOSS_STDIN
and/or
.B PM_EXEC_TOSS_STDOUT
and/or
.B PM_EXEC_TOSS_STDERR
to reassign
.BR stdin ,
.B stdout
and
.B stderr
respectively.
.B PM_EXEC_TOSS_ALL
is a convenience macro equivalent to
.BR "PM_EXEC_TOSS_STDIN | PM_EXEC_TOSS_STDOUT | PM_EXEC_TOSS_STDERR" .
.PP
The
.I wait
argument should be
.B PM_EXEC_WAIT
if
.B __pmProcessExec
should wait for completion of the command and harvest the exit
status, else
.B PM_EXEC_NOWAIT
in which case
.B __pmProcessExec
returns immediately (effectively running the command in the background).
.PP
Nested calling of
.B __pmProcessExec
and/or
.BR __pmProcessPipe (3)
is not allowed.  Once
.B __pmProcessAddArg
is called with
.I handle
set to
.BR NULL
to start the registration and execution sequence any attempt
to start a second registration sequence will be blocked until
the first one is completed by calling
.B __pmProcessExec
or
.BR __pmProcessPipe (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR execvp(2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR __pmProcessPipe (3),
.BR popen (3),
.BR system (3)
and
.BR waitpid (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If successful
.B __pmProcessAddArg
returns 0.  Other conditions are rare (e.g. alloc failure) and are
indicated by a return value that can be decoded using
.BR pmErrStr (3).
.PP
.B __pmProcessUnpickArgs
returns 0 on success.  In the case of an unterminated string,
a message is generated and
.B PM_ERR_GENERIC
is returned.
Other return values less than 0 indicate a more serious error and the
value can be decoded using
.BR pmErrStr (3).
.PP
The return status from
.B __pmProcessExec
is more complicated.
If either
.B PM_EXEC_NOWAIT
is specified, or the command completes with an exit status of 0,
the return value is 0.
Return values less than 0 indicate a more serious error and the
value can be decoded using
.BR pmErrStr (3).
If the command was executed, but did not exit with status of 0 then
the return value is an encoding of the
.BR waitpid (2)
status as follows: 2000 if something unknown went wrong, else
if 1000 + signal number of the command was killed or stopped by
a signal, else the exit status of the command.
