'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMRECONNECTCONTEXT 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmReconnectContext\f1 \- reconnect to a PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmReconnectContext(int \fIhandle\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
As a consequence of network, host or
Performance Metrics Collector Daemon (PMCD) failures, an application's
connection to a PMCD may be established and then subsequently lost.
.PP
The routine
.B pmReconnectContext
allows an application to request that the context identified by 
.I handle
should be re-established, provided the associated metrics source is accessible.
.PP
When the source of metrics associated with the context
.I handle
is
.BR pmcd (1),
then
to avoid flooding the system with reconnect requests,
.B pmReconnectContext
will only attempt a reconnection after a suitable delay from the previous
unsuccessful attempt to reconnect this context. This imposed restriction on
the reconnect re-try time interval uses an exponential back-off so that the 
initial delay is 5 seconds after the first unsuccessful attempt, then 10
seconds, then 20 seconds, then 40 seconds and then 80 seconds thereafter.
.PP
The environment variable
.B PMCD_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT
may be used to redefine the back-off intervals, see
.BR PMAPI (3).
.PP
Calling
.B pmReconnectContext
with a handle identifying a currently connected
.BR pmcd (1)
context will cause the
connection to be broken before any reconnection is attempted.
.PP
If
.I handle
identifies a context associated with an archive source of metrics,
.B pmReconnectContext
returns without delay.
.PP
If the reconnection succeeds,
.B pmReconnectContext
returns
.IR handle .
.PP
As a side-effect of reconnecting, any derived metrics that have
previously been defined using
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
or
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3)
will be re-processed and re-bound to the available metrics from the reconnected source.
The support of dynamic definition for derived metrics provides
one use case where 
.B pmReconnectContext
may be called even if the connection to the metrics source has not been lost.
.PP
Note that even in the case of a successful reconnection,
.B pmReconnectContext
does not change the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context, so
.I handle
remains valid.
.PP
When attempting to connect to a remote
.BR pmcd (1)
on a machine that is booting,
.B pmReconnectContext
could potentially block for a long time until the remote machine
finishes its initialization.
.B pmReconnectContext
will abort and return an error if the connection has not been established after
some specified interval has elapsed.  The default interval is 5
seconds.  This may be modified by setting
.B PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
in the environment to a real number of seconds for the
desired timeout.
This is most useful in cases where the remote host is at
the end of a slow network, requiring longer latencies to
establish the connection correctly.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
Timeout period (in seconds) for
.BR pmcd (1)
connection attempts.
.TP
.B PMCD_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT
Redefines the back-off intervals - refer to
.BR PMAPI (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerived (3),
.BR pmRegisterDerivedMetric (3)
and
.BR pmUseContext (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
.B PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT
.IP
.I handle
does not identify a valid PMAPI context
.P
.B \-ETIMEDOUT
.IP
The re-try time has not elapsed, or the reconnection is attempted and fails.
.SH CAVEAT
.P
Applications that use
.BR gethostbyname (3)
should exercise caution because the static fields in
.I "struct hostent"
may not be preserved across some
.BR PMAPI (3)
calls.
In particular,
.BR pmNewContext (3)
and
.BR pmReconnectContext (3)
both may call
.BR gethostbyname (3)
internally.
