'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMSETPROCESSIDENTITY 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmSetProcessIdentity\f1 \- set process user and group id
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
pmSetProcessIdentity(const char *\fIusername\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmSetProcessIdentity
provides a platform-independent method to set the user id
of a process to that matching
.IR username .
.PP
If possible (when the caller is already running as root)
.B pmSetProcessIdentity
will set the group id of the process to that of the matching
user, e.g. using
.I username
and
.BR getpwnam (3).
.PP
A return value of 0 indicates success, otherwise the return
value is an error code that may be decoded with
.BR pmErrStr (3).
.PP
.BR pmSetProcessIdentity
is most often used in conjunction with
.BR pmGetUsername (3)
at process start up.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmErrStr (3),
.BR pmGetUsername (3),
.BR setgid (3)
and
.BR setuid (3).
