'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMSERIESDESCS 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmSeriesDescs\f1,
\f3pmSeriesLabels\f1,
\f3pmSeriesLabelValues\f1,
\f3pmSeriesInstances\f1,
\f3pmSeriesMetrics\f1,
\f3pmSeriesSources\f1 \- fast, scalable time series metadata
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmwebapi.h>
.sp
int pmSeriesDescs(pmSeriesSettings *\fIsp\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSeriesDescs('u
int\ \fIcount\fP,
sds\ *\fIseries\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.br
int pmSeriesLabels(pmSeriesSettings *\fIsp\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSeriesLabels('u
int\ \fIcount\fP,
sds\ *\fIseries\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.br
int pmSeriesLabelValues(pmSeriesSettings *\fIsp\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSeriesLabelValues('u
int\ \fIcount\fP,
sds\ *\fIlabels\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.br
int pmSeriesInstances(pmSeriesSettings *\fIsp\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSeriesInstances('u
int\ \fIcount\fP,
sds\ *\fIseries\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.br
int pmSeriesMetrics(pmSeriesSettings *\fIsp\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSeriesMetrics('u
int\ \fIcount\fP,
sds\ *\fIseries\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.br
int pmSeriesSources(pmSeriesSettings *\fIsp\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSeriesSources('u
int\ \fIcount\fP,
sds\ *\fIseries\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_web
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each performance metric and data source forming part of the Performance
Co-Pilot (PCP) fast, scalable time series service has certain properties
(metadata) associated with it.
These properties can be queried using the interfaces described here.
.PP
This functionality is provided through asynchronous APIs, which function
in an event-driven fashion where callbacks are invoked for each metadata
structure being returned.
.PP
As a general pattern, all interfaces in these APIs that need to invoke
callbacks provided by the calling program (see
.BR pmSeriesSetup (3))
will take an opaque (void * pointer) parameter,
.IR arg .
This pointer will be passed through unchanged and is typically used to
access a data structure maintaining state within the calling program.
.PP
With a couple of exceptions, these interfaces tend to operate in one of
two modes.
Firstly, one invocation is available to query metadata for a specific
(non-zero)
.I count
of time
.IR series .
A second, (zero)
.IR count ,
mode returns all available metadata of that type, across all time series.
.PP
In order to retrieve metric descriptor information for one or more time
series, the
.B pmSeriesDescs
interface is used.
For each valid
.I series
identifier provided, a callback will be invoked providing the metric
units, semantics, and type as well as other identifiers associated with
it (pmID, InDom and source identifier).
When this call is issued with a zero value for
.IR count ,
It is an error to pass a zero or negative value of
.I count
into this interface.
.PP
To extract label names and values, the
.B pmSeriesLabels
interface is used.
With a non-zero value for
.I count
valid
.I series
identifiers, this routine will invoke a callback once for each label
name and once for each label name:value pair, for labels associated
with those time series.
If called with a
.I count
of zero, this interface will return (via the label name callback) all
label names that have observed to date \- not associated with specific
time series.
The
.B pmSeriesLabelValues
interface is comparable to this latter mode, except will return all
label values that have been observed to date for the given array of
.I labels
names (not associated with any specific time series identifiers).
.PP
.B pmSeriesInstances
can be used to find metadata about instance domains and instance
identifiers associated with a given (non-zero)
.I count
of time
.I series
identifiers.
If a zero value is passed for
.I count
then all instance names observed to date will be returned.
.PP
.B pmSeriesMetrics
can be used to find metric names associated with a given (non-zero)
.I count
of time
.I series
identifiers.
If a zero value is passed for
.I count
then all metric names observed to date will be returned.
.PP
.B pmSeriesSources
can be used to find metadata about the source of metrics \- that is,
host names and archive file paths.
If a zero value is passed for
.I count
then all metric sources observed to date will be returned.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Where these functions return a status code, this is always zero on success.
On failure a negative PMAPI error code is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmseries (1),
.BR pmSeriesQuery (3),
.BR pmSeriesSetup (3),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR PMWEBAPI (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ sds {from typedef char *sds in pcp/sds.h}
