'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMSEARCHINFO 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmSearchInfo\f1 \- diagnostic metrics of PCP search services
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmwebapi.h>
.sp
int pmSearchInfo(pmSearchSettings *\fIsettings\fP, sds \fIkey\fP, void *\fIarg\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_web
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Diagnostic metrics related to the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) fast, scalable and full-text capable search services.
.PP
Currently, as all full-text related services are using single RediSearch index, diagnostic metrics are requestable by passing in
.IR key
with a value of
.BR `text' .
The results will passed to
.B on_metrics
callback provided by
.B settings.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function always returns zero on success.
On failure a negative PMAPI error code is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmsearch (1),
.BR redis-server (1),
.BR pmSearchSetup (3),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR PMWEBAPI (3).
.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ RediSearch on_metrics {from callback}
.\" +ok+ sds {from typedef char *sds in pcp/sds.h}
