'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMSEARCHTEXTQUERY 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmSearchTextQuery\f1 \- full-text search for metrics, instances and instance domains provided by PCP search services
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmwebapi.h>
.sp
int pmSearchTextQuery(pmSearchSettings *\fIsettings\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSearchTextQuery('u
pmSearchTextRequest\ *\fIrequest\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_web
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Executes full-text search in name, oneline help, helptext (when available) as specified by
.IR request :
.TP 5
\fIquery\fR
Query string that will be used to search.
.TP 5
\fIcount\fR
Limits number of results. Defaults to 10.
.TP 5
\fIoffset\fR
Search offset. Defaults to 0.
.TP 5
\fItype_metric\fR, \fItype_indom\fR, \fItype_inst\fR
Bit flags that limit query to only take into the account specific type of entities. Defaults to all.
.TP 5
\fIhighlight_name\fR, \fIhighlight_oneline\fR, \fIhighlight_helptext\fR
Bit flags that specify whether or not to highlight matched terms in results. Defaults to none. Highlighted terms are wrapped with `<b>' and `</b>'.
.TP 5
\fIinfields_name\fR, \fIinfields_oneline\fR, \fIinfields_helptext\fR
Bit flags that allow limiting full-text search query matching only to specified fields. Defaults to all.
.TP 5
\fIreturn_name\fR, \fIreturn_indom\fR, \fIreturn_oneline\fR, \fIreturn_helptext\fR, \fIreturn_type\fR
Bit flags for omitting specific fields from result. Defaults to all. Fields may be omitted either way if value of a field doesn't exist for a given record.
.PP
Each entity matched by the
.B request
above will be passed to
.B on_text_result
callback provided by
.B settings.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function always returns zero on success.
On failure a negative PMAPI error code is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmsearch (1),
.BR pmSearchSetup (3),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR PMWEBAPI (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ highlight_helptext highlight_oneline infields_helptext
.\" +ok+ infields_oneline return_helptext return_oneline highlight_name
.\" +ok+ on_text_result infields_name return_indom return_name return_type
.\" +ok+ type_metric type_indom type_inst helptext oneline
