'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMSETMODE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmSetMode\f1 \- set collection time and mode parameters for the current PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmSetMode(int \fImode\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSetMode('u
const\ struct\ timespec\ *\fIwhen\fP,
const\ struct\ timespec\ *\fIdelta\fP);
.in
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CR
.ie t \f(CR\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
.B pmSetMode
are used to define the collection time and/or mode for accessing
performance metrics and metadata in the current
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
context.
This mode affects the semantics of subsequent calls to the following
PMAPI routines:
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3),
.BR pmFetchArchive (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmGetInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupLabels (3)
and
.BR pmNameInDom (3).
.PP
Intended mainly for retrospective analysis of performance metrics
from a PCP archive, the
options described below allow an application to implement seeking to an arbitrary
time within the archive, playback, fast forward, reverse,
etc. by alternating calls
to
.B pmSetMode
and
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3).
.PP
If
.I mode
is
.B PM_MODE_LIVE
then all information is returned from the active pool of performance metrics
as of the time that the PMAPI call is made, and the other two parameters to
.B pmSetMode
(\c
.I when
and
.IR delta )
are ignored.
.B PM_MODE_LIVE
is the default mode when a new PMAPI context is created with type
.B PM_CONTEXT_HOST
(i.e. fetching metrics from
.B pmcd (1))
or
.BR PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL ,
and this
.I mode
is rarely used in calls to
.B pmSetMode
.PP
The other values of
.I mode
are used with PCP archives where the associated PMAPI context must be of type
.B PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE
(when it was created
with
.BR pmNewContext (3))
and the
.I when
parameter defines the current time within the archive.
All requests for metric values and metadata (metric
descriptions and instance identifiers from the instance domains) will be
processed to reflect the state in the archive as of the current time.
.PP
When selecting a value for
.IR when ,
the time at the start of the archive can be established from
the
.CR ll_start
field in the structure returned from a call to
.BR pmGetArchiveLabel (3)
or
the
.CR start
field in the structure returned from a call to
.BR pmGetArchiveLabel (3),
and the time at the end of the archive can be established by calling
.BR pmGetArchiveEnd (3)
.PP
As a special case, if
.I when
is
.B NULL
then the
.I mode
and
.I delta
arguments are used as described below, but the current time in the archive
is not altered.
.SH "TIME-DRIVEN ARCHIVE MODE"
If
.I mode
is
.B PM_MODE_INTERP
then as metric values are retrieved from the archive with
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
the current time is returned as the timestamp in the
.CR pmResult
structure and
the current time moves on; if
.I delta
is positive, the current time moves forwards, else the current
time moves backwards.
The adjustment to the current time is applied even if the
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
fails to return values for any metrics or returns an error,
e.g. \c
.B PM_ERR_EOL
because the current time is outside the range defined by
the records in the archive.
.PP
When metric values are being requested via
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
the current time may
not exactly match the times at which values have been recorded in the
archive, so the returned metric values
are computed from the observed metric values
in the archive (usually at times close to the current time).
.PP
For metrics with semantics of
.BR PM_SEM_COUNTER ,
the computed value is based
on linear interpolation between the last observation before
the current time and the first
observation after the current time.
.PP
For metrics with semantics of
.B PM_SEM_INSTANT
or
.BR PM_SEM_DISCRETE ,
the computed value is based on values in the neighbourhood of the current time.
.PP
The algorithms used in these computations depend on the semantics
of the metrics and the time series of observed values in the archive; a fuller
explanation may be found in the white paper
.I "Explaining Value Interpolation with PCP Archives"
found at
.BR https://pcp.io/papers/archive-interpolation.pdf .
.SH "RECORD-DRIVEN ARCHIVE MODES"
If
.I mode
is
.B PM_MODE_FORW
or
.B PM_MODE_BACK
then when metric values are being requested via
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
the archive will be scanned in a forwards (\c
.BR PM_MODE_FORW )
or backwards (\c
.BR PM_MODE_BACK )
direction in time, until an archive record is
encountered with values for
.B "at least one"
of the requested metrics.
This archive record is used to provide as many of
the requested metrics as possible and these are
returned with the timestamp if the record in the archive, which becomes the
new current time.
.PP
Note that any metrics requested via
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
that do
.B not
have a value in the archive record at the
new current time will return no values, and so this mode is most useful for
archives where all of the metrics of interest have been logged regularly
at the same time in the archive.
Otherwise, each
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
will contain only the subset of the requested metrics and any associated
instances found in the
qualifying archive record.
.PP
The
.I delta
parameter is ignored, because the current time is driven by the
timestamp in the matching archive record.
So there is no concept
of stepping through the archive in regular time with this mode,
although if the requested metrics appear at regular intervals
in the archive the current time may advance by regular intervals,
but this is serendipitous.
.PP
If no qualifying metrics can be found in the requested direction of searching
before the end or start of the archive is encountered, then
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3)
returns the special error indicator,
.BR PM_ERR_EOL .
.SH RECOMMENDATIONS
When processing PCP archives,
.B PM_MODE_INTERP
is preferred because:
.IP \(bu 2n
This maximizes the information that will be returned
in each
.BR pmFetch (3)
or
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3).
.IP \(bu 2n
This returns values at regular intervals of the current time, independent
of the logging frequency for requested metrics in the archive.
.IP \(bu 2n
This works with
.B any
PCP archive, as opposed to the record-driven modes which may work
acceptably for archives with regular logging of all requested metrics,
but may fail to report complete or useful results for other archives.
.IP \(bu 2n
This mode provides the closest semantic match to
.B PM_MODE_LIVE
and leads to the least user surprise when moving between real-time
monitoring and retrospective analysis.
.SH EXAMPLES
To replay interpolated metrics from an archive at 10 second intervals,
the following code fragment could be used:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
struct timeval mytime;
int mydelta = 10 * 1000;      /* msec */
pmLogLabel label;
pmResult result;

pmNewContext(PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE, "myarchive");
pmGetArchiveLabel(&label);
mytime = label.ll_start;
pmSetMode(PM_MODE_INTERP, &mytime, mydelta)

while (pmFetch(numpmid, pmidlist, &result) != PM_ERR_EOL) {
    /*
     * process interpolated metric values as of
     * result->timestamp
     */
    \&. . .
    pmFreeResult(result);
}
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
The following code fragment may be used to dump values
for selected metrics in an
archive in reverse temporal sequence.
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
struct timespec mytime;
pmResult result;

pmNewContext(PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE, "myarchive");
pmGetArchiveEnd(&mytime);
pmSetMode(PM_MODE_BACK, &mytime, NULL);

while (pmFetch(npmid, pmidlist, &result) != PM_ERR_EOL) {
    /*
     * process logged metric values as of result->timestamp
     */
    \&. . .
    pmFreeResult(result);
}
.in
.ft 1
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Prior to PCP 7.0 the
.I when
argument was a \f(CRstruct timeval\fP
and the
.I delta
argument was an \f(CRint\fP (in units of milliseconds).
To support PMAPI transition, the old interface and semantics can be
used if applications are recompiled with
.BR \-DPMAPI_VERSION=2 .
.PP
For a time in PCP 6.x there was a
routine with the same semantics as the current
.B pmSetMode
called
.B pmSetModeHighRes
although this is now deprecated and compile-time support for
.B pmSetModeHighRes
will be removed in a future release.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_MODE\f1
The
.I mode
parameter is invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmFetch (3),
.BR pmFetchArchive (3),
.BR pmFetchHighRes (3),
.BR pmGetArchiveEnd (3),
.BR pmGetArchiveLabel (3),
.BR pmGetInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmLookupInDom (3),
.BR pmLookupLabels (3),
.BR pmNameInDom (3)
and
.BR pmNewContext (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ PM_TIME_XXXX
.\" +ok+ myarchive pmidlist mydelta mytime npmid mtime abs {from example C code}
.\" +ok+ pdf {from URL}
