'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMSEARCHTEXTINDOM 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmSearchTextInDom\f1 \- search for all entities related to given instance domain
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <pcp/pmwebapi.h>
.sp
int pmSearchTextInDom(pmSearchSettings *\fIsettings\fP,
'in +\w'int pmSearchTextInDom('u
pmSearchTextRequest\ *\fIrequest\fP,
void\ *\fIarg\fP);
.in
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp_web
.hy
.ad
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Executes search for all metrics, instances and instance domains, that are related to given instance domain as specified by
.IR request :
.TP 5
\fIquery\fR
Target instance domain.
.TP 5
\fIcount\fR
Limits number of results. Defaults to 10.
.TP 5
\fIoffset\fR
Search offset. Defaults to 0.
.PP
Results are ordered by type in an ascending order.
.PP
Each entity matched by the
.B request
above will be passed to
.B on_text_result
callback provided by
.B settings.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function always returns zero on success.
On failure a negative PMAPI error code is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmsearch (1),
.BR pmSearchSetup (3),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR PMWEBAPI (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ on_text_result {from callback}
