'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMTRIMNAMESPACE 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmTrimNameSpace\f1 \- prune a performance metrics name space
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmTrimNameSpace(void);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
In some (rare) cases it is helpful to prune the
Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS) to match the available
metrics.
.PP
The default PMNS that is accessible
to a
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
client is provided by the current PMAPI context:
.IP \(bu 3n
for a PMAPI context of type
.B PM_CONTEXT_HOST
the PMNS is provided by
.BR pmcd (1)
on the associated host and no pruning is required
.IP \(bu 3n
for a PMAPI context of type
.B PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE
the PMNS is stored within the associated
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive log and no pruning is required
.IP \(bu 3n
for a PMAPI context of type
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
at the first PMAPI call requiring access to the PMNS it
is loaded from the default local location
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/root
(or
.BR $PMNS_DEFAULT )
and no pruning is required.
.PP
If the default PMNS is in effect then calling
.B pmTrimNameSpace
is a no-op and returns zero with no change to the PMNS.
.PP
PMAPI clients also have the option of over-riding the default PMNS
by loading a
.I local
PMNS from a file (see
.BR pmns (5)
for the format) by calling
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3)
or
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3)
and this is when some PMNS pruning
.I may
be useful.
.PP
If a
.I local
PMNS is in effect when
.B pmTrimNameSpace
is called then the first action
is to restore the PMNS to the state as of the completion of the last
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3)
or
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
so that the effects of consecutive calls to
.B pmTrimNameSpace
are
.B not
additive.
.PP
The subsequent
actions of
.B pmTrimNameSpace
depend on the type of the current PMAPI context.
.IP \(bu 3n
For a context of type
.B PM_CONTEXT_ARCHIVE
the
.I local
PMNS is trimmed to exclude
metrics for which no description can
be found in the PCP archive log.
The PMNS is further trimmed to remove empty subtrees that do not contain any
performance metric.
Since PCP archives usually contain some subset
of all metrics named in a PMNS,
.B pmTrimNameSpace
effectively prunes the application's PMNS to contain only the
names of the metrics in the archive.
.IP \(bu 3n
For a context of type
.B PM_CONTEXT_HOST
or
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
no further action is required.
.PP
On success,
.B pmTrimNameSpace
returns zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3),
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3)
and
.BR pmns (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOPMNS\f1
there has been some earlier problem with establishing the relevant PMNS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT\f1
the current PMAPI context is invalid
