'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMTYPESTR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmTypeStr\f1,
\f3pmTypeStr_r\f1 \- convert a performance metric type into a string
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
const char *pmTypeStr(int \fItype\fP);
.br
char *pmTypeStr_r(int \fItype\fP, char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
Given a performance metric
.IR type ,
.B pmTypeStr
produces a terse ASCII equivalent, appropriate for use in error and diagnostic
messages.
The
.B pmTypeStr_r
function does the same, but stores the result in a user-supplied buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen ,
which should have room for at least 20 bytes.
.PP
The value for
.I type
is typically extracted from a
.CW pmDesc
structure, following a call to
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
for a particular performance metric.
.PP
Examples are
.B 32
(for
.I type
equals
.BR PM_TYPE_32 ),
.B U64
(for
.I type
equals
.BR PM_TYPE_U64 ),
.B AGGREGATE
(for
.I type
equals
.BR PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE ),
etc.
.PP
The string value result for
.B pmTypeStr
is held in a single static buffer, so the returned value is
only valid until the next call to
.BR pmTypeStr .
.SH NOTES
.B pmTypeStr
returns a pointer to a static buffer and hence is not thread-safe.
Multi-threaded applications should use
.B pmTypeStr_r
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmAtomStr (3),
.BR pmConvScale (3),
.BR pmExtractValue (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmPrintValue (3)
and
.BR pmUnitsStr (3).
