'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMWHICHCONTEXT 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMWHICHCONTEXT 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMWHICHCONTEXT 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMWHICHCONTEXT 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMWHICHCONTEXT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmWhichContext\f1 \- identify the current PMAPI context
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmWhichContext(void)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
An application using the
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI)
may manipulate several concurrent contexts,
each associated with a source of performance metrics, e.g. \c
.BR pmcd (1)
on some host, or an archive log of performance metrics as created by
.BR pmlogger (1).
.PP
.B pmWhichContext
returns a handle for the current PMAPI context, that may
be used in the associated PMAPI routines that require a handle
to identify a PMAPI context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmDestroyContext (3),
.BR pmDupContext (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3)
and
.BR pmUseContext (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP \f3PM_ERR_NOCONTEXT\f1
no current context
