'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMWHICHZONE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMWHICHZONE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMWHICHZONE 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMWHICHZONE 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMWHICHZONE "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmWhichZone\f1 \- return current reporting timezone
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.sp
int pmWhichZone(char **tz)
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The current reporting timezone effects the timezone used by
.BR pmCtime (3)
and
.BR pmLocaltime (3).
.PP
.B pmWhichZone
returns the handle of the current timezone,
as previously established by
a call to
.BR pmNewZone (3)
or
.BR pmNewContextZone (3).
If the call is successful (i.e. there exists a current reporting timezone)
then a non-negative integer is returned and
.I tz
is set to point to a static buffer containing the timezone string itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmCtime (3),
.BR pmLocaltime (3),
.BR pmNewContextZone (3),
.BR pmNewZone (3)
and
.BR pmUseZone (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A return value less than zero indicates there is no current reporting timezone.
