'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH QMC 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} QMC 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} QMC 3 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} QMC 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} QMC "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3QMC\f1 \- library for managing groups of Performance Co-Pilot metrics
.SH "C++ SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <QMC.h>
.sp
CC ... \-lqmc \-lpcp 
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Qt-based Performance Metrics Class
.RB ( QMC )
class library is a collection of C++ classes for managing a large set of
performance metrics from a variety of sources.  This library is built over
.BR PMAPI (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR QmcContext (3),
.BR QmcDesc (3),
.BR QmcGroup (3),
.BR QmcIndom (3),
.BR QmcMetric (3),
.BR QmcSource (3),
.BR pmflush (3)
and
.BR pmprintf (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are generated using
.BR pmprintf (3)
but are not flushed. It is the responsibility of the user to call
.BR pmflush (3)
to output any messages.
.PP
Additional diagnostics may be activated by adding 
.B DBG_TRACE_PMC
to the global
.IR pmDebug .
