'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.TH QMC_DESC 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3QmcDesc\f1 \- container for a metric description
.SH "C++ SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <QmcDesc.h>
.sp
CC ... \-lqmc \-lpcp 
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
.B QmcDesc
object is a container for a metric descriptor 
.RB ( pmDesc ", see " PMAPI (3))
and units.
.SH "CONSTRUCTORS & DESTRUCTOR"
.TP 4
.B "~QmcDesc();"
Destructor.
.TP
.B "QmcDesc(pmID pmid);"
Construct a container for the descriptor for 
.IR pmid .
The descriptor is obtained from the current
.BR PMAPI (3)
context using
.BR pmLookupDesc (3).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP 4
.B "int status() const;"
A status less than zero indicates that the descriptor could not be obtained,
the
.BR PMAPI (3)
error is encoded in the result.
.TP
.B "pmID id() const;"
Return the
.B pmID
for this descriptor.
.TP
.B "pmDesc desc() const;"
Return a copy of the actual metric descriptor.
.TP
.B "const pmDesc *descPtr() const;"
Return a pointer to the actual descriptor to avoid using a pointer to a
temporary.
.SH UNITS
.TP 4
.B "const QString &units() const;"
The complete unit string for this descriptor.
.TP
.B "const QString &abvUnits() const;"
The unit string using abbreviations.
.TP
.B "bool useScaleUnits() const;"
Returns
.B true
if the units have been set by a call to
.BR QmcDesc::setScaleUnits .
.TP
.B "const pmUnits &scaleUnits() const;"
Return the scaling units for this descriptor.
.TP
.B "void setScaleUnits(const pmUnits &units);"
Set the scaling units for this descriptor.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR QMC (3),
.BR pmflush (3),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
and
.BR pmprintf (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are generated using
.BR pmprintf (3)
but are not flushed. It is the responsibility of the user to call
.BR pmflush (3)
to output any messages.
.PP
Additional diagnostics may be activated by adding the option
.B pmc
to the global debugging specification, as described in
.BR pmSetDebug (3).
