'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.TH QMC_METRIC 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3QmcMetric\f1 \- container for a metric and all its values
.SH "C++ SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmc/Metric.h>
.sp
CC ... \-lpcp_pmc \-lpcp 
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
.B QmcMetric
object is a container for a single metric and all its values.
.PP
The
.B QmcMetricValue
structure is used to hold the instance index, values and errors of each
instance.  In the case of a singular metric, a single
.B QmcMetricValue
object is used.
.PP
A
.B QmcMetric
object consists of a list of
.B QmcMetricValue
objects, indexes to the descriptors in the metric's
.B QmcGroup
and
.B QmcContext
and flags to indicate if the instances are explicit or implicit, and if
only active metrics are required after 
.B QmcMetric::updateIndom
is called.
.SH "CONSTRUCTORS"
Metrics should be constructed through the
.B QmcGroup::addMetric
methods as this will ensure that the references to the metric's context,
descriptor and instance domain are correctly initialized.
.SH INSTANCES
For metrics with an instance domain it is possible to add and remove any
instance, and also update the instance list to reflect changes in a dynamic
instance domain.
.TP 4
.B "bool updateIndom();"
Update the metric to include new instances.  This method will first call
.B QmcContext::update
to update the instance domain.  If the
.I active
flag is set in the
.B QmcGroup::addMetric
call, only instances will exported by the metric, otherwise the metric will
export all instances listed in the domain.

The ordering of instances may change as a result of this call.  Instances
that already existed will keep their current and previous values and errors,
even if they are in a different order.
.TP
.B "int addInst(QString const& name);"
Add the instance
.B name
to the metric.  If the instance does not exist in the instance domain,
a 
.BR PMAPI (3)
error will be returned.  This method ignores the value of the
.I active
flag set in the
.B QmcMetric
constructor.
.TP
.B "void removeInst(uint_t index);"
Remove the instance at position
.I index 
from the metric.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR QMC (3),
.BR QMC_Context (3),
.BR QMC_Group (3),
.BR pmflush (3)
and
.BR pmprintf (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are generated using
.BR pmprintf (3)
but are not flushed. It is the responsibility of the user to call
.BR pmflush (3)
to output any messages.
.PP
Additional diagnostics may be activated by adding 
.B DBG_TRACE_PMC
to the global
.IR pmDebug .
