'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.TH QMC_SOURCE 3 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3QmcSource \f1 \- manages contexts created by all groups
.SH "C++ SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <QmcSource.h>
.sp
CC ... \-lqmc \-lpcp 
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B QmcSource
class maintains a unique list of all metric sources in use to minimize
the creation of new contexts (see
.BR pmNewContext (3))
when the context could have been duplicated (see
.BR pmDupContext (3)).
This also reduces the duplication of descriptions of each source.
.PP
In general, 
.B QMC
users should only need to access
.B QmcSource
methods to obtain source descriptions for a
.BR QmcContext (3)
object.  All context creation by the user should be handled through
.BR QmcGroup (3).
.SH "DESTRUCTOR"
.TP 4
.B "~QmcSource();"
Destructor.
.SH "CONSTRUCTORS"
.TP 4
.B "static QmcSource* getSource(int type, const char* source,"
.B "bool matchHosts)"

This method will return a 
.B QmcSource
object that represents a context of
.I type
to
.IR source .
The 
.B QmcSource
object may be a new object if the
.I source
has not been previously requested. Memory management of the
.B QmcSource
objects is handled by 
.BR QmcSource .
If all
.BR QmcContext (3)s
to the 
.B QmcSource
have been deleted, the
.B QmcSource
object will also be deleted.

The
.I matchHosts
flag controls the algorithm that is used to match hosts to archives.
If 
.I matchHosts
is equal to
.B false
then no attempt will be made by this method to match a host context to an
existing source context. A
.B QmcSource
object will always be returned in this case, although the
.B QmcSource::status
method may indicate that a context to 
.I source
failed.

If
.I matchHosts
is equal to
.BR true ,
host contexts will be matched to a pre-defined archive source collected from
that
.IR source .
If no archive sources for the
.I source
have been previous specified,
.B getSource
will return a NULL pointer.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR QMC (3),
.BR QmcContext (3),
.BR QmcGroup (3),
.BR pmDupContext (3),
.BR pmflush (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3)
and
.BR pmprintf (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are generated using
.BR pmprintf (3)
but are not flushed. It is the responsibility of the user to call
.BR pmflush (3)
to output any messages.
.PP
Additional diagnostics may be activated by adding the option
.B pmc
to the global debugging specification, as described in
.BR pmSetDebug (3).
