'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMNS 4 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMNS 4 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMNS 4 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMNS 4 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMNS "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmns\f1 \- the performance metrics name space
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns
.SH DESCRIPTION
When using the Performance Metrics Programming Interface (PMAPI)
of the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP),
performance metrics are identified by an external name in a
hierarchic Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS), and an
internal identifier, the Performance Metric Identifier (PMID).
.PP
A PMNS specifies the association between a metric's name and its PMID.
.PP
A PMNS is defined on one or more ASCII source files, that may be
compiled using
.BR pmnscomp (1)
to produce a binary PMNS.
Note that
.BR pmnscomp (1)
is normally invoked from the
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/Rebuild
script if necessary when
.BR pmcd (1)
is started.
.PP
Loading of a PMNS is done by calling
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3)
which silently tolerates either the ASCII or binary formats.
Alternatively,
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3)
may be used to load just the ASCII format.
.PP
If the binary format is used, no checking is performed for aliasing
in which multiple names in the PMNS are associated with a single
PMID.
If the ASCII format is to be used, duplicate PMIDs are not allowed,
although
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3)
provides an alternative interface with user-defined control
over the processing of duplicate PMIDs in an ASCII format PMNS.
The external ASCII format for a PMNS conforms to the syntax
and semantics described in the following sections.
.PP
There is one default PMNS in the files below
.IR $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns ,
although users and application developers are free to
create and use alternate PMNS's.
For an example of this, see
the PCP Tutorial in
.IR $PCP_DEMOS_DIR/Tutorial .
.PP
Although an application can call 
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
normally this is only done directly for the 
.B \-n
command line option where an explicit root PMNS file is specified.
Since PCP version 2 uses a distributed PMNS (see below), 
an application can extract PMNS information from a
host's PMCD or an archive.  If the PMNS source
(pmcd or archive) is version 1 (see
.BR PCPIntro (1)),
however, 
then the local PMNS will be loaded using the path specified by the 
environment variable
.BR PMNS_DEFAULT .
.SH DISTRIBUTED PMNS
In PCP version 1, the PMNS functions in the API all operated on
a PMNS loaded locally from a file. Since PCP version 2, however,
PMNS functions may get the PMNS information remotely from a PMCD
or directly from the meta data of an archive. We call this a
distributed PMNS. It has the advantage
that the PMNS should always match the source of the metrics.
For example, in PCP version 1, if one wanted to access a remote PMCD 
which had an agent
installed which one didn't have installed locally, then the local
PMNS had to be updated just for that agent. This is no longer the case.
.PP
In order to be compatible with version 1 PMCDs and version 1 archives
(see
.BR PCPIntro (1)),
the local PMNS (\c
.BR PMNS_DEFAULT )
is automatically loaded as was done previously in PCP version 1.
.PP
From an API level, there has been minimal changes.
The main change is that if an application wants to use the distributed PMNS
then it should \f3not\f1 call
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3) 
or
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3).
Doing so will load the local PMNS as specified above. Not calling these
functions would previously (in PCP version 1) cause an error when trying
to access the PMNS but now
(in PCP version 2) it will force the PMNS functions to look at the metrics source for
their information.
.SH PROCESSING FRAMEWORK
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The PMNS specification is initially passed through
.BR cpp (1).
This means the following facilities may be used in the specification
.IP + 3n
C-style comments
.IP + 3n
.CW #include
directives
.IP + 3n 
.CW #define
directives and macro substitution
.IP + 3n 
conditional processing via 
.CW #if
\&...
.CW #endif ,
etc.
.PP
When
.BR cpp (1)
is executed, the ``standard'' include directories are the current directory and
.IR $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns .
.SH SYNTAX
The general syntax for a non-leaf node in the PMNS is as follows
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
pathname {
	name      [pmid]
	...
}
.fi
.ft R
.PP
Where
.CW pathname
is the full pathname from the root of the PMNS to this non-leaf node,
with each
component in the pathname separated by a ``.''.
The root node for the PMNS must have the special 
name ``root'', but the common prefix ``root.'' must be omitted from
all pathnames.
Each component in the pathname must begin with an alphabetic character,
and be followed by zero
more characters drawn from the alphabetics, the digits and the underscore
``_'') character.
For alphabetic characters in a pathname component, upper and lower case are distinguished.
.PP
Non-leaf nodes in the PMNS may be defined in any order.
.PP
The descendent nodes are defined by the set of
.CW names ,
relative to the
.CW pathname
of their parent non-leaf node.  For the descendent nodes, leaf
nodes have a
.CW pmid
specification, non-leaf nodes do not.  The syntax for
the
.CW pmid
specification has been chosen to help manage the allocation of
PMIDs across disjoint and autonomous domains
of administration and implementation.  Each
.CW pmid
consists of 3 integer
parts, separated by colons, e.g. 14:27:11.  This hierarchic numbering
scheme is intended to mirror the implementation hierarchy of
performance metric domain, metrics cluster (data structure or
operational similarity) and individual metric.  In practice, the
two leading components are likely to be macros in the PMNS specification
source, and
.BR cpp (1)
will convert the macros to integers.  These macros for
the initial components of the
.CW pmid
are likely to be defined either in
a standard include file, e.g. \c
.IR $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/stdpmid ,
or in the current source file.
.PP
The current allocation of the high-order (PMD or domain) component
of PMIDs is as follows.
.TS
box,center;
c | c
n | l.
Range	Allocation
_
0	reserved
_
1-31	SGI internal
_
32-39	Oracle
_
40-47	Sybase
_
48-55	Informix
_
60	Linux
_
56-127	ISV Performance Metrics
_
128-254	End-user applications
.TE
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CW
.nf
#define IRIX 1
root {
    network
    cpu
}

#define NETWORK 26
network {
    intrate	IRIX:NETWORK:1
    packetrate
}

network.packetrate {
    in		IRIX:NETWORK:35
    out		IRIX:NETWORK:36
}

#define CPU 10
cpu {
    syscallrate	IRIX:CPU:10
    util
}

#define USER 20
#define KERNEL 21
#define IDLE 22

cpu.util {
    user	IRIX:CPU:USER
    sys		IRIX:CPU:KERNEL
    idle	IRIX:CPU:IDLE
}
.fi
.ft R
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpp (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmnscomp (1),
.BR PCPIntro (3),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmErrStr (3),
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3),
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
