'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2023 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMCLEANMAPDIR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmCleanMapDir\f1 \- remove old files from a map directory
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include "pmapi.h"
.br
#include "libpcp.h"
.sp
int __pmCleanMapDir(const char *\fIdirname\fP, const char * \fIspecial\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH CAVEAT
This documentation is intended for internal Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) developer use.
.PP
These interfaces are not part of the PCP APIs that are guaranteed to
remain fixed across releases, and they may not work, or may provide
different semantics at some point in the future.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pmlogger (1)
and
.BR pmie (1)
maintain directories of map files that provide a mapping from a
.BR pmlogger (1)
or
.BR pmie (1)
process id (PID) to important parameters of those processes.
.PP
.B __pmCleanMapDir
removes ``dead'' files in these directories, specifically the
directory entries in
.I dirname
should follow these rules, else
.B __pmCleanMapDir
will remove them:
.IP + 2n
the name should be numeric, else it should be equal
.I special
(if
.I special
is not NULL)
.IP + 2n
for a numeric directory entry it should be a regular file
and the name should be the PID of a running process
.IP + 2n
for a match on
.I special
the directory entry should be a symbolic link and the last
component of the link
should be the ASCII encoding of the PID of a running process
.PP
Before any of these checks are done,
.B __pmCleanMapDir
checks that
.I dirname
is indeed a directory, and the user id and group id of the caller
match the user id and group id of
.IR dirname .
.SH RETURN VALUES
If a serious error occurs,
.B __pmCleanMapDir
returns a negative value suitable for reporting with
.BR pmErrStr (3).
Otherwise the return value is the number of entries that have been
removed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Verbose diagnostics describing the actions of
.B __pmCleanMapDir
will be reported on standard error of the debug option
.B appl9
is set, e.g. via
.B \-Dappl9
from the command line.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmdbg (1),
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmErrStr (3).
