'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMAF 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmAFsetup\f1,
\f3__pmAFregister\f1,
\f3__pmAFunregister\f1,
\f3__pmAFblock\f1,
\f3__pmAFunblock\f1,
\f3__pmAFisempty\f1 \- event queue services for periodic asynchronous callbacks
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include "pmapi.h"
.br
#include "libpcp.h"
.sp
.ad l
.hy 0
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int __pmAFsetup(const struct timeval *\fIstart\fP, const struct timeval *\fIdelta\fP, void *\fIdata\fP, void\ (*\fIfunc\fP)(int,\ void *));
.in
.in +8n
.ti -8n
int __pmAFregister(const struct timeval *\fIdelta\fP, void *\fIdata\fP, void\ (*\fIfunc\fP)(int,\ void *));
.br
.in
.hy
.ad
int __pmAFunregister(int \fIafid\fP);
.br
void __pmAFblock(void);
.br
void __pmAFunblock(void);
.br
int __pmAFisempty(void);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH CAVEAT
This documentation is intended for internal Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) developer use.
.PP
These interfaces are not part of the PCP APIs that are guaranteed to
remain fixed across releases, and they may not work, or may provide
different semantics at some point in the future.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The routines implement an event queue and callback framework that supports
periodic evaluation of a series of events with varying frequencies
for Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) applications.
.P
The
.BR pmlogger (1)
application, the
.BR pmdatrace (1)
PMDA and the
.BR pmdahotproc (1)
PMDA are the principal users of these services.
.P
An event is created by calling
.B __pmAFsetup
or
.B __pmAFregister
and on success the return value is an event number greater than zero.
The event has associated event data identified by the opaque pointer
.IR data .
The event will occur with frequency
.IR delta
and each time the event occurs the function
.I func
will be called with the event number and the event data as arguments.
.P
If
.B __pmAFsetup
is used then the first event is scheduled for the current time plus
.IR start ,
else if
.B __pmAFregister
is used then the first event is scheduled for the current time plus
.IR delta .
.P
.I func
is called in a SIGALRM signal handler context and so the routines
that may be safely called from
.I func
are restricted to the so-called
.I async-signal-safe
set.
In particular there must be no Standard I/O
calls nor calls to any of the
.BR malloc (3)
routines to modify the state of the heap.
Refer to the
.I "Pointer to a Function"
Section of the POSIX.1-2013 document at
http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/V2_chap02.html
for a fuller description.
.P
The safest and simplest class of
.I func
routines are those that do minimal processing, set some global state and return.
The real work associated with the event is done subsequently
from the application's main loop when the
global state change is detected.
.P
Once the event occurs and the callback has been executed, the event
will be rescheduled for
.I delta
into the future, except
if all the fields of
.I delta
are zero, in which case
the event will not be rescheduled
(a ``one trip'' event).
.P
Internally, events are processed serially so there is no
possibility of nested callbacks or re-entrant callbacks from the
event management routines.
.P
Given an event number
.IR afid ,
.B __pmAFunregister
will permanently remove the corresponding entry from the event queue.
.P
To control the event queue processing,
.B __pmAFblock
and
.B __pmAFunblock
may be used to explicitly block and unblock the dispatch of events.
This is most useful when the caller wishes to set up a number of
events via
.B __pmAFsetup
or
.B __pmAFregister
and complete the registration phase before the first
event callback occurs.
.P
A call to
.B __pmAFisempty
returns 1 or 0 depending on whether the event queue is empty or not.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.BR __pmAFsetup ,
.B __pmAFregister
and
.B __pmAFunregister
return values less than zero in the case of an error.  These values
are PCP error codes, and may be used to produce error messages via
.BR pmErrStr (3).
.P
The routines support the standard PCP debug tracing, and the
.B af
option
(or
.B "\-D af"
on the command line)
will produce diagnostics on standard error that trace the enqueuing
and execution of events.
.SH CAVEATS
These routines rely on
.BR setitimer (2)
and manipulate the handling of
.B SIGALRM
signals, and hence are probably ill-suited for applications that
require direct and concurrent access to these services and resources.
.P
If the callback functions are slow, or delayed, it is possible that
the event scheduling could fall behind and never catchup.  When this
begins to happen, events are silently skipped and rescheduled at the earliest
possible time in the future according to the fixed schedule defined
by the time of the call to
.B __pmAFsetup
and the value of the
.I start
and
.I delta
arguments
(or defined by the time of the call to
.B __pmAFregister
and the value of the
.I delta
argument).
.P
In addition, the semantics of the interval timer(s) and the global
state needed to support these services demand that applications
calling these routines must do so from a single thread.
This restriction is enforced at the
.BR PMAPI (3),
where routines may return the error code
.B PM_ERR_THREAD
if the library detects calls from more than one thread.
