'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGMETATYPESTR 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3__pmLogMetaTypeStr\f1,
\f3__pmLogMetaTypeStr_r\f1 \- convert an archive metadata record type into a string
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include <pcp/pmapi.h>
.br
#include <pcp/libpcp.h>
.sp
const char *__pmLogMetaTypeStr(int \fItype\fP);
.br
char *__pmTLogMetaypeStr_r(int \fItype\fP, char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP);
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH CAVEAT
This documentation is intended for internal Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) developer use.
.PP
These interfaces are not part of the PCP APIs that are guaranteed to
remain fixed across releases, and they may not work, or may provide
different semantics at some point in the future.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de CR
.ie t \f(CR\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
Given a numeric archive metadata record type (\c
.IR type ),
.B pmLogMetaTypeStr
produces the ASCII name of that record type, else
.B UNKNOWN
if
.I type
is not a valid record type.
.B pmLogMetaTypeStr_r
function does the same, but stores the result in a user-supplied buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen ,
which should have room for at least 17 bytes.
.PP
Examples are
.B DESC
(for
.I type
equals
.BR 0 ),
.B INDOM_V2
(for
.I type
equals
.BR 1 ),
etc.
.SH NOTES
Both of these functions are safe to call from threaded contexts.
