'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" 
.TH PMAPI_INTERNAL 3 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3PMAPI_INTERNAL\f1 \- internal details for the Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface
.SH "C SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
#include "pmapi.h"
.br
#include "libpcp.h"
.sp
.ft 1
\& ... assorted routines ...
.ft 3
.sp
cc ... \-lpcp
.ft 1
.SH CAVEAT
This documentation is intended for internal Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) developer use.
.PP
These interfaces are not part of the PCP APIs that are guaranteed to
remain fixed across releases, and they may not work, or may provide
different semantics at some point in the future.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Refer to
.BR PMAPI (3)
for general information about the external interfaces defined in <pcp/pmapi.h>.
The interfaces described here assume that context.
.SH "MULTI-THREADED APPLICATIONS"
The following groups of internal functions and services in
.B libpcp
are restricted to being called from a single-thread, and this is enforced
by returning
.B PM_ERR_THREAD
when an attempt to call the routines in each group from more than one
thread is detected.
.TP 4n
1.
The interval timer services use global state with semantics that demand
it is only used in the context of a single thread, so
.BR __pmAFregister (3),
.BR __pmAFunregister (3),
.BR __pmAFblock (3),
.B __pmAFunblock (3)
and
.BR __pmAFisempty (3).
.TP 4n
2.
The following access control manipulation
routines that are principally intended
for single-threaded applications:
.BR __pmAccAddOp ,
.BR __pmAccSaveHosts ,
.BR __pmAccRestoreHosts ,
.BR __pmAccFreeSavedHosts ,
.BR __pmAccAddHost ,
.BR __pmAccAddClient ,
.B __pmAccDelClient
and
.BR __pmAccDumpHosts .
.TP 4n
3.
The following routines that identify
.I pmlogger
control ports and are principally intended
for single-threaded applications:
.B __pmLogFindPort
and
.BR __pmLogFindLocalPorts .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3).
