'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH CLUSTERVIS 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3clustervis\f1 \- visualize cpu and network performance on a cluster
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3clustervis\f1
[\f3\-H\f1 \f2nodesfile\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1[\f2,host\f1...]]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1[,\f2archive\f1...]]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2max\f1]
[\f2pmview options\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clustervis
displays three dimensional bar charts of CPU utilization
and network traffic for one or most hosts in a cluster.
An alternative two dimensional cluster performance monitoring
tool is
.BR pmgcluster (1).
.B clustervis
is designed to provide a scalable overview of the
performance of large clusters.
Other tools such as
.BR pmchart (1)
and
.BR pmgsys (1)
provide drill-down details on a per-host basis.
These tools may be launched by clicking
on the purple base plane for a particular host
and then selecting a tool from the
.I launch
menu in
.BR clustervis .
.PP
The
.BR \-H ,
.B \-h
and
.B \-a
arguments are all mutually exclusive
and have the following semantics; if none of
.BR \-H ,
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
is given, and either the file
.I /etc/nodes
or
.I /etc/ace/nodes
exists, or the
.B $PCP_CLUSTER_CONFIG
environment variable is set,
then use the named file as the set of hosts for live monitoring.
If the default nodes file does not exist, the environment variable
is not set and none of the three flags were given, an error is reported.
Otherwise, if
.B \-H
is given, then the set of hosts is given in
.IR nodesfile .
.P
The
.B \-h
flag specifies one or more (comma separated with no spaces) hosts for live monitoring
and the
.B \-a
flag specifies one or more archives
for archive replay (comma separated).
.PP
The height of the CPU stack is proportional to the CPU utilization
in each of the modes
.B sys
(red, executing in the kernel) and
.B user
(blue, executing user code).
The network traffic stack is shown for each network interface
as the packet rate
.BR in
(light blue),
.BR out
(orange) and
.BR errors
(red).
The hight of the network stack is modulated by the
.BR \-m
argument,
with a default of
.I 750
packets/second representing saturated network traffic.
.PP
.B clustervis
generates a
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file, and passes most command line options to
.BR pmview (1).
Therefore, the command line options
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-O ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-Z
and
.BR \-z ,
and the user interface are described in the
.BR pmview (1)
man page.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.clustervis
A
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file for
.B clustervis
metrics.
.TP
.B /usr/pcp/lib/pmview-args
Shell procedures for parsing
.BR pmview (1)
command line options.
.TP 10
.B /etc/nodes
Default set of hosts in the cluster.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
The
.B PCP_CLUSTER_CONFIG
environment variable may be used to specify the
default nodes file instead of using the
.B \-H
flag. Each line in the file is a host name
(or a comment starting with
.BR # ).
Other environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dkvis (1),
.BR mpvis (1),
.BR nfsvis (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.P
The
.B CPU
view for
.BR pmchart (1).
