'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013,2019 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH COLLECTL2PCP 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3collectl2pcp\f1 \- import collectl data to a PCP archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3collectl2pcp\f1
[\f3\-fv?\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
\f2file\f1
[\f2file\f1 ...]
\f2archive\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B collectl2pcp
reads raw
.BR collectl (1)
data from each \f2file\f1
and creates a new PCP archive with basename \f2archive\f1.
Each input \f2file\f1 may be gzipped (with \f3.gz\f1 suffix).
The PCP \f2archive\f1 and at least one input \f2file\f1 are required arguments.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\f3\-f\f1, \f3\-\-force\f1
Overwrite \f2archive\f1 (and the index and meta files) if it already exists.
.TP
\f3\-v\f1, \f3\-\-verbose\f1
Report progress and errors verbosely.
This also reports a count of unsupported metric data in the
.BR collectl (1)
input file(s),
which is normally silently skipped.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.TP
\f2file\f1 [\f2file\f1 ...]
These are the
.BR collectl (1)
input files.
If more than one is given,
they must contain data for the same host and be given in
time-stamp chronological order on the command line.
Note that when
.BR collectl (1)
is run as a service,
it normally creates files with date based names that will sort chronologically
(e.g. \f3/var/log/collectl/*.gz\f1 will be sorted correctly).
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.PP
For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see \fBpmGetOptions\fP(3).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR collectl (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR LOGIMPORT (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ gzipped
