'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH DKVIS 1 ""Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3dkvis\f1 \- visualize disk I/O activity and performance
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3dkvis\f1
[\f3\-brVw\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2maxrate\f1]
[\f3\-X\f1 \f2ndisk\f1]
[\f3\-Y\f1 \f2nctl\f1]
[\f2pmview options\f1]
[\f2diskid ...\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dkvis
displays a three dimensional bar chart of disk activity.  Each row of bars
on the base plane represents a disk controller (or host adapter, or bus),
and the bars within a row correspond to the disks attached to the controller.
.PP
The label to the left of each row identifies the common part of
disk name for all disks in that row, e.g. \c
.B dks3
for all IRIX SCSI disks attached to controller number 3.
.PP
The height of the bars is proportional to the activity.
.PP
The user can specify a list of disks as \f2diskid\f1 arguments
using the disk naming scheme reported by
.sp 0.5v
.ft CW
.ti 1i
$ pminfo -f disk.dev.total
.sp 0.5v
.ft R
e.g. \c
.B hda
or
.B dks0d4
or
.B sda
or
.B scsi/host1/bus0/target4/lun0/disc
or
.B 20000080e5114459/lun3/c2p1
depending on the type of disks.
Alternatively, if the
.I diskid
argument contains one of the characters
.B ^
or
.B .
or
.B [
then
.I diskid
will be treated as a regular expression in the style of
.BR egrep (1)
and the matching set of disk names will be used instead of
.IR diskid .
.PP
If one or more
.I diskid
arguments is specified, only the disks in this list are
displayed in the view.  The disks are grouped in the scene
by controller as in the default scene when all disks are present.
.PP
.B dkvis
generates a
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file, and passes most command line options to
.BR pmview (1).
Therefore, the command line options
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-O ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-Z
and
.BR \-z ,
and the user interface are described in the
.BR pmview (1)
man page.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
The
.B dkvis
specific options are:
.IP \f3\-b\f1
Report the activity as data throughput in
Kbytes per second rather than the
default I/O operations per second (IOPS).
.IP \f3\-m\f1
Use
.I maxrate
as the maximum activity from which utilization percentages are computed.
This effectively specifies the height at which bars will be clipped.
If
.B \-b
is specified the default maximum value is 2048 Kbytes per second,
otherwise the default maximum value is 150 IOPS.
.IP \f3\-r\f1
Display the read activity.
The default is to display the total (read and write) activity.
.IP \f3\-V\f1
Verbose mode \- output the generated
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file.
.IP \f3\-w\f1
Display the write activity.
The default is to display the total (read and write) activity.
.IP \f3\-X\f1
The default arrangement attempts to display up to 12 disks on
the same controller in a single row.
When more than 12 disks are associated with a controller,
additional rows are created in an attempt to achieve
a baseplane footprint for the scene that is as close to square as we
can manage.
.RS
.PP
The
.B \-X
option may be used to over-ride the default layout algorithm and force
a scene in which each row contains no more than
.I ndisk
disks.
.RE
.IP \f3\-Y\f1
The default arrangement attempts to display disks for
up to 16 controller rows in a single block.
When more than 16 controller rows
are present, additional blocks are created in an attempt to achieve
a baseplane footprint for the scene that is as close to square as we
can manage.
.RS
.PP
The
.B \-Y
option may be used to over-ride the default layout algorithm and force
a scene in which blocks are assigned such that each contains no more than
.I nctl
controller rows.
.PP
For backwards compatibility
.B \-R
is a deprecated synonym for
.B \-Y .
.RE
.PP
Only one type of activity can be displayed per invocation of
.BR dkvis ,
hence
.B \-r
and
.B \-w
are mutually exclusive.
.SH LAUNCH
The behavior of
.BR pmchart (1)
when launched from
.B dkvis
is dependent on the number of disks in each row.  If there are more than 6
controllers then a separate chart will be generated for each column of disks.
In other words, the first disk from each controller in one chart, the second
disk in the next chart and so on.  Otherwise a separate chart will be generated
for each disk controller.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.dkvis
A
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file for
.B dkvis
metrics.
.TP
.B $PCP_SHARE_DIR/lib/pmview-args
Shell procedures for parsing
.BR pmview (1)
command line options.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dkstat (1),
.BR mpvis (1),
.BR nfsvis (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.PP
The
.B Disk
and
.B DiskCntrls
views for
.BR pmchart (1).
