'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH GENPMDA 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3genpmda\f1 \- Performance Co-Pilot PMDA Generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3genpmda\f1 [\f3\-d\f1] [\f3\-D\f1 \f2domain\f1] [\f3\-s\f1 \f2stdpmid\f1] [\f3\-t\f1 \f2topdir\f1] [\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmns\f1] [\f3\-o\f1 \f2dir\f1] [\f3\-v\f1] \f3\-i\f1 \f2IAM\f1 \f3\-c\f1 \f2config\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Genpmda
is a rapid application development tool for creating new
Performance Metrics Domain Agents, see
.BR PMDA (3).
It provides a very easy and efficient way to extend
the Performance Co-pilot (PCP) with new performance metrics
without needing to understand the low level details of how PMDAs are
constructed.
.PP
.B Genpmda
reads a config file containing an augmented
Performance Metrics Name Space, see
.BR pmns (5),
and automatically generates virtually all of the source code
to implement a fully functional PMDA, including the Makefile,
name space, support scripts for configuring the new PMDA,
and the metrics help text.
Fairly simple PMDAs can be automatically generated from the
config file without writing any additional code.
More complicated PMDAs, e.g. containing multiple instance domains,
require only the refresh methods for the instance domains to be
written manually.
.PP
An example of the config file format accepted by
.B genpmda
is given below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 0
.B "Required options:"
.TP 7
.BI "\-c" " config"
input \f2config\f1 file, see example below
.TP 7
.BI "\-i" " IAM"
pmda name \f2IAM\f1, should appear in \f2stdpmid\f1 or the \f3\-D\f1 option must be used to specify a \f2domain\f1.
.TP 0
.B "Other options:"
.TP 7
.BI "\-d"
generate an Install script for a daemon PMDA (default is DSO)
.TP 7
.BI "\-t" " topdir"
use \f2topdir\f1 in generated GNUmakefile, default \f3../../..\f1
.TP 7
.BI "\-n" " pmns"
use \f2pmns\f1 as root of the namespace (default matches \f3\-i\f1 flag)
.TP 7
.BI "\-D" " domain"
use \f2domain\f1 number in the generated \f3pmns\f1 and \f3domain.h\f1 (if \f3\-s\f1 is not given)
.TP 7
.BI "\-s" " stdpmid"
path to \f2stdpmid\f1 (default \f3../../pmns/stdpmid\f1)
.TP 7
.BI "\-o" " dir"
use \f2dir\f1 for generated source code, default \f3./generated\f1
.TP 7
.BI "\-v"
print verbose messages about what
.B genpmda
is doing.
.PP
Example:
    Generate an "example" pmda using domain 99:
.br
    \f3genpmda \-D 99 \-v \-i EXAMPLE \-c example.conf\f1

Here is \f2example.conf\f1 config file (for the required \f3\-c\f1 option):
.br
.in +0.5i
.sp
.nf
example {
    metric
}

example.metric {
    ##  metric            string
    ##  pmid              EXAMPLE:CLUSTER:0
    ##  indom             PM_INDOM_NULL
    ##  type              PM_TYPE_STRING
    ##  units             PMDA_PMUNITS(0,0,0,0,0,0)
    ##  semantics         PM_SEM_DISCRETE
    ##  briefhelptext     one line help text for example.metric.string
    ##  helptext          long help text for example.metric.string
    ##  helptext          This is the second line of the long help text
    ##  helptext          and this is the third line.
    ##  fetch             function example_string_fetch_callback
    ##  code              atom->cp = "hello world";
    ##  code              return 1;
    ##  endmetric
}

.fi
.sp 2
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmns (5),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Many, but all are intended to be easily understood.
