'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH INDOMCACHECTL 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3indomcachectl\f1 \- manage instance domain cache files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/indomcachectl
[\fB\-w\fR]
\fB\-l\fR
.I indom
.sp
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/indomcachectl
[\fB\-w\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR \fImode\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
.I indom
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de EX
.in +0.5i
.ie t .ft CB
.el .ft B
.ie t .sp .5v
.el .sp
.ta \\w' 'u*8
.nf
..
.de EE
.fi
.ie t .sp .5v
.el .sp
.ft R
.in
..
.B indomcachectl
assists in the management of the Instance Domain cache files that
are stored in
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmda .
.PP
The mandatory
.I indom
parameter uses a 2-dotted format to specify the
.I domain
and
.I serial
fields of the instance domain number.
The required values can be reported for a particular metric using the
.B \-d
option to
.BR pminfo (1).
.PP
If the
.B \-l
option is specified the contents of the instance domain cache file
are dumped on
.I stdout
and
.I indomcachectl
exits.
.PP
Otherwise an empty instance domain cache file will be created.
The user ownership of the created file is assigned to the uid
of the caller, but may optionally assigned to the uid of
.I user
from the
.BR passwd (5)
file if the
.I \-u
option is specified.
The group ownership of the created file is assigned to the gid
of the caller, else the default gid of the user
.I user
if the
.I \-u
option is specified, else the gid of
.I group
from the
.BR group (5)
file if the
.I \-g
option is specified.
.PP
The instance domain cache file is created with mode 0660 by
default (some PMDAs use group read-write permission to access
and update the contents of the file)
\- if this
does not suit the
.B \-m
option may be used to set the mode to the (octal) value
.IR mode .
.PP
Because the indom cache files are precious to the associated PMDA
.I indomcachectl
will not over-write an existing indom cache file.
.PP
Operation is usually silent, except for errors (or warnings if the
.I \-w
option is used).
The exit status is 0 for success, 1 for failure.
.SH OTHER MANAGEMENT OPTIONS
The files in
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmda
are all text files (one per cached instance domain)
so judicious surgery may be used to make changes
or even remove the files
in extreme cases
.B provided
the PMDA is not executing.
.PP
Here is an example for the instance domain number
60.17 that is associated with the
network.interface.* metrics.
.EX
$ cat /var/lib/pcp/config/pmda/60.17
2 0 2147483647
0 1712727825 ens33
1 1712727825 virbr0
2 1712727825 lo
.EE
.PP
The first line is a magic header, do not change it.
Following that is one line per instance with the instance identifier
(an integer) in the first field, some magic in the second field
(do not change this) and the external instance name in the third field.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR chmod (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pmdaCache (3),
.BR group (5)
and
.BR passwd (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ uid gid chmod
.\" +ok+ virbr ens sp [from network interfaces]
.\" +ok+ pmda [from /var/lib/pcp/config/pmda]
