.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Nathan Scott.  All Rights Reserved.
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH KMTIME 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} KMTIME 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} KMTIME 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} KMTIME 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} KMTIME "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3kmtime\f1 \- time control server for Performance Co-Pilot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3kmtime\f1
[\f3\-a\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2port\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kmtime
is a graphical user interface for performance monitoring applications
using the PCP infrastructure and requiring interactive time control.
.B kmtime
is a replacement for SGI's
.B pmtime
tool.
.PP
.B kmtime
is not normally invoked directly by users.  Rather, it is more
typical for it to be started by client applications (e.g.
.BR kmchart (1)
and
.BR pmval (1)).
.PP
The arguments to
.B kmtime
are as follows:
.TP 5
.B \-a
Use archive mode.
This instructs
.B kmtime
to create a dialog window with time controls suitable for manipulating
the archive position, allowing full VCR control to move forwards
and backwards in time at configurable rates and intervals.
.TP
.B \-h
Use live mode.
This instructs
.B kmtime
to create a dialog window with the simpler time controls suitable for
live monitoring.
.TP
.B \-p
.I port
is the port number which
.B kmtime
will use for communication with its clients (monitoring applications).
.PP
The
.B \-a
and
.B \-h
arguments are mutually exclusive, and if neither is specified
.B kmtime
defaults to using archive mode.
.BR -a .
.PP
Note that the
.kmtime
window is only made visible when explicitly requested.
Multiple client applications can be connected to a single
.B kmtime
server \- when the final client application exits,
.B kmtime
will also exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
When a port number is not explicitly requested on the command line
via the
.B \-p
option, the environment variable
.I KMTIME_PORT
can be set to specify the port number from which available port
probing will commence when
.B kmtime
is searching for a port number to use.
.PP
The default starting port number is 43334.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR kmchart (1),
and
.BR pmval (1).
