'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH MKAF 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3mkaf\f1 \- create a Performance Co-Pilot archive folio
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/mkaf\f1
[\f2findopts\f1]
\f2filename\f1 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
A collection of one or more Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPIntro (1)) 
archive logs may be combined with
.B mkaf
to produce a PCP archive folio and the associated archive
folio control file.
Some PCP tools use
.B mkaf
to create archive folios, e.g.  the ``record'' facility in the
.BR pmchart (1)
and
.BR pmview (1)
tools, to facilitate playback with
.BR pmafm (1).
.PP
.B mkaf
processes each
.I filename
argument, and if this is a component file from a PCP archive 
that archive is added to the folio.
.PP
If
.I filename
is a directory, then this is searched recursively using
.BR find (1).
Any
.I filename
argument beginning with a ``\-'' is assumed to be a
.BR find (1)
command line option
.RI ( findopts );
the default is
.B -follow
if no
.I findopts
are specified.
.PP
The first named
archive in the folio is assumed to be
associated with the default host for any tool that tries to
replay multiple archives from the folio.
.PP
The folio control file is written to standard output, and has the
following format.
.IP 1. 3n
The first line contains the word
.BR PCPFolio .
.IP 2.
The second line contains the tag
.B Version:
followed by the format version number (currently 1).
.IP 3.
For subsequent lines, blank lines and lines beginning with ``#''
are ignored.
.IP 4.
The line beginning with the tag
.B Created:
documents where and when the folio was created.
.IP 5.
The line beginning with the tag
.B Creator:
identifies the tool which created the folio (and is assumed to know
how to replay the archive folio).
If present, the second argument is the name of a configuration file
that the creator tool could use to replay the archive folio,
e.g. with the
.B replay
command for
.BR pmafm (1).
In the case of
.B mkaf
(unlike
.BR pmchart (1)
or
.BR pmview (1))
there is no knowledge of the contents of the archives, so the ``creator''
cannot replay the archive, however
.BR pmchart (1)
is able to replay any archive, and so this tool is identified as the
.B Creator:
for archive folios created by
.BR mkaf (1).
.IP 6.
This is then followed by one or more lines beginning with the tag
.B Archive:
followed by the hostname and base name of the archive.
.PP
For example
.ti +5n
$ mkaf mydir/gonzo
.br
might produce the following folio control file.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
PCPFolio
Version: 1
# use pmafm(1) to process this PCP archive folio
#
Created: on gonzo at Tue Jul  2 03:35:54 EST 1996
Creator: pmchart
#               Host                    Basename
#
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960627
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960628
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960629
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960630
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960701
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960701.00.10
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960701.05.25
Archive:        gonzo                   mydir/gonzo/960702.00.10
.ft
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmafm (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Some informational messages, warnings and pathological conditions are
reported on standard error.
