'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH MPVIS 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3mpvis\f1 \- visualize cpu utilization/performance
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3mpvis\f1
[\f3\-biV\f1]
[\f3\-r\f1 \f2rowlength\f1]
[\f3\-R\f1 \f2rowlength\f1]
[\f2pmview options\f1]
[\f2cpuid ...\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mpvis
displays a three dimensional bar chart of CPU utilization.
The display is updated with new values retrieved from the target
.I host
or
.I archive
every
.I interval
seconds (default is 2 seconds).
.PP
The height of the bars is proportional to the CPU utilization in each of
the modes
.B idle
(with no I/O pending),
.B wait
(idle, but waiting for I/O - only visible in IRIX),
.B intr
(interrupt processing - only visible in IRIX),
.B nice
(nice state - only visible in Linux),
.B sys
(in the kernel) and
.BR user .
.PP
The number of CPUs per row in the scene is governed by
the default maximum row length, and the options \f3\-b\f1, \f3\-r\f1
and \f3\-R\f1.  If none of these flags are specified, \f3mpvis\f1
uses the default maximum row length to calculate the actual number
of rows and columns in the view, according to:

.nf
	nrows = (ncpus + maxrowlen - 1) / maxrowlen
	ncols = (ncpus + nrows - 1) / nrows.
.fi

The \f3\-r\f1 option uses the above algorithm, but allows the user
to override the maximum row length.
.PP
The CPUs are sorted in ascending order.  They are displayed from
left to right, and front to back (in the case where there is more
than one row of CPUs).
.PP
The user can specify a list of CPUs as \f2cpuid\f1 arguments
using the naming scheme reported by
.sp 0.5v
.ft CW
.ti 1i
$ pminfo -f kernel.percpu.cpu.user
.sp 0.5v
.ft R
i.e. \c
.BI cpu N
or
.BI cpu A : B
depending on the operating system version and platform.
Alternatively, if the
.I cpuid
argument contains one of the characters
.B ^
or
.B .
or
.B [
then
.I cpuid
will be treated as a regular expression in the style of
.BR egrep (1)
and the matching set of CPU names will be used instead of
.IR cpuid .
.PP
If one or more
.I cpuid
arguments is specified,
then only the CPUs in this list are
displayed in the view.  The list of CPUs is sorted into
ascending CPU number and
they are displayed from left to right, and front to back
(in the case where there is more than one row of CPUs).
.PP
.B mpvis
generates a
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file, and passes most command line options to
.BR pmview (1).
Therefore, the command line options 
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-O ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-Z
and
.BR \-z ,
and the user interface are described in the
.BR pmview (1)
man page.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
The
.B mpvis
specific options are:
.IP \f3\-b\f1 n
Use a ratio for row:column of 1:8.  This option is best for large
numbers of CPUs.  If the row length is not a factor of the number of CPUs,
then the last row will be shorter than all other rows.  This option
ignores the maximum row length.
.IP \f3\-i\f1
Label each CPU column with the CPU number.
.IP \f3\-r\f1 n
Split the view into a number of rows, where each row has a maximum
length of \f2n\f1 CPUs.  This is a soft limit.  The actual row
length is calculated by an algorithm (see above) which prduces
a balanced view with no more than \f2n\f1 CPUs per row.
.IP \f3\-R\f1 n
Split the view into a number of rows, where each row has a length of
\f2n\f1 CPUs.  This is a hard limit.  If the row length is not a
factor of the number of CPUs, then the last row will be shorter
than all other rows.
.IP \f3\-V\f1
Verbose mode \- output the generated
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file.
.SH LAUNCH
The behavior of 
.BR pmchart (1)
when launched from
.B mpvis
is dependent on the number of CPUs in each row.  If there are more than 6 CPUs
in a row then each chart will contain a separate metric, otherwise each
chart will contain a separate CPU instance.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.mpvis
A
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file for
.B mpvis
metrics.
.TP
.B $PCP_SHARE_DIR/lib/pmview-args
Shell procedures for parsing
.BR pmview (1)
command line options.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dkvis (1),
.BR nfsvis (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmlogger (1)
and
.BR pmview (1).
.P
The
.B CPU
view for
.BR pmchart (1).
