'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH NFSVIS 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3nfsvis\f1 \- visualize performance of NFS statistics
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3nfsvis\f1
[\f3\-V\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2version\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2maxrate\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2version\f1]
[\f2pmview options\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nfsvis
displays a three dimensional bar chart of NFS request statistics.
The display is
updated with new values retrieved from the target
.I host
or
.I archive
every
.I interval
seconds (default is 2 seconds).
.PP
Two blocks of statistics are displayed \- one for the NFS server and
one for the NFS client
requests.
The height of the bars is proportional to the rate at which the
various request types are processed.
.PP
.B nfsvis
generates a
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file, and passes most command line options to
.BR pmview (1).
Therefore, the command line options
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-O ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-Z
and
.BR \-z ,
and the user interface are described in the
.BR pmview (1)
man page.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
The
.B nfsvis
specific options are:
.TP
.IP \f3-c\f1
Monitor NFS 
.I version
2 or 3 client metrics.  The default is version 2.
.IP \f3\-m\f1
Use
.I maxrate
as the maximum NFS request rate over all classes of request,
from which the height of the bars is
computed.  This
effectively specifies the height at which bars will be clipped.
.IP \f3-s\f1
Monitor NFS 
.I version
2 or 3 server metrics.  The default is version 2.
.IP \f3\-V\f1
Verbose mode \- output the generated
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.nfsvis
A 
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file for
.B nfsvis
metrics.
.TP
.B $PCP_SHARE_DIR/lib/pmview-args
Shell procedures for parsing
.BR pmview (1)
command line options.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dkvis (1),
.BR mpvis (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmlogger (1)
and
.BR pmview (1).
.P
The
.B NFS
view for
.BR pmchart (1).
