'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH OSVIS 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3osvis\f1 \- visualize high-level system activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3osvis\f1
[\f3\-V\f1]
[\f3\-b\f1 \f2bytes\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2activity\f1]
[\f3\-i\f1 \f2ops\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2packets\f1]
[\f2pmview options\f1]
[\f2interface\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B osvis
displays an high-level overview of performance statistics collected from
the Performance Co-Pilot
.RB ( PCP (1))
infrastructure.  The display is modulated by the values of the
performance metrics retrieved from the target
.I host
(which is running
.BR pmcd (1))
or from the PCP archive log identified by
.IR archive .
The display is updated
every
.I interval
seconds (default 2 seconds).
.PP
As in all
.BR pmview (1)
scenes, when the mouse is moved over one of the bars,
the current value and metric information for that bar
will be shown in the text box near the top of the display.
The height and/or color of the bars is proportional to the
performance metric values relative to the maximum
expected activity,
as controlled by the
.BR \-d ,
.B \-i
and
.B \-m
options (see below).
.PP
The bars in the
.B osvis
scene represent the following information:
.TP 4
.B "CPU"
This column shows CPU utilization, aggregated over all CPUs.
.TP 4
.B Disk
The first stack is the rate of disk read and write operations aggregated over
all disk spindles.  The second bar is the average time the disks are busy,
which approximates average time utilization of all disks.
.TP 4
.B Disk Controllers
The average time the disks were busy on each controller, which approximates
the average time utilization of all disks on each controller.
.TP 4
.B Load
The three bars represent the average load for the past 1, 5 and 15 minutes.
This is normalized by twice the number of CPUs on the machine.
.TP 4
.B Mem
The stack shows memory utilization by breaking down real memory into
kernel, file system and user usage.  The memory utilization metrics
.RI ( mem.util )
may not be available on all hosts, so
.B Mem
may only show the amount of free memory as a single bar on some hosts.
.TP 4
.B "Network Input"
The two rows of bars show the input byte rate and the input packet rate
for each network interface, except loopback and slip interfaces.
.TP 4
.B "Network Output"
The two rows of bars show the output byte rate and the output packet rate
for each network interface, except for loopback and slip interfaces.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
If any optional
.I interface
arguments are specified in the command line, then just the
network interfaces matching the
.I interface
arguments will appear in the
.B "Network Input"
and
.B "Network Output"
sections.  By default, all interfaces will be used.
The
.I interface
arguments are used as patterns for
.BR egrep (1)
matching against the interface names, so
.B ec
would select all external Ethernet interfaces for a Challenge S.
.PP
.B osvis
uses
.BR pmview (1),
and so the user interface follows
that described for
.BR pmview (1),
which in turn displays the scene
within an
Inventor examiner viewer.
.PP
.B osvis
passes most command line options to
.BR pmview (1).
Therefore, the command line options
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-O ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-x ,
.BR \-Z
and
.BR \-z ,
and the user interface are described in the
.BR pmview (1)
man page.
.PP
Options specific to
.B osvis
are:
.IP \f3\-b\f1
Controls the maximum expected network throughput, in bytes.
The default value is 65536 bytes.
.IP \f3\-d\f1
Controls the maximum expected disk utilization, as a percentage.
The default value is 30%.
.IP \f3\-i\f1
Controls the maximum (normalization) value for the disk read and write rates.
The default value is 100 operations/second.
.IP \f3\-m\f1
Controls the maximum (normalization) value for
the packet input and packet output rates.
The default value is 750 packets/second.
.IP \f3\-V\f1
The derived configuration file for
.BR pmview (1)
is written on standard output.
This may be saved and used directly with
.B pmview
if the user wishes to customize the display, or modify some of
the normalization parameters.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/ *
default PMNS specification files
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.osvis
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file that can be used to create a PCP archive
suitable for display with
.B osvis
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR pcp.conf (4),
.BR pcp.env (4)
and
.BR pmlaunch (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B osvis
will silently remove those blocks from the scene whose metrics are not
available from the live host or the archive.
