'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2019 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PCP-SHPING 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pcp-shping\f1 \- report on shell service availability and response
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pcp\f1
[\f2pcp\ options\f1]
\f3shping\f1
[\f3\-cl?\f1]
\f2tag\f1 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pcp-shping
samples and reports on the shell-ping service metrics exported
by the
.BR pmdashping (1)
agent.
.PP
The default report from
.B pcp-shping
shows two columns for each service
.IR tag ,
the first showing service status (zero indicating success) and the
second service response time, for the last
.B pmdashping
command refresh cycle.
.PP
When invoked via the
.BR pcp (1)
command, the
.BR \-h /\c
.BR \-\-host ,
.BR \-a /\c
.BR \-\-archive ,
.BR \-O /\c
.BR \-\-origin ,
.BR \-s /\c
.BR \-\-samples ,
.BR \-t /\c
.BR \-\-interval ,
.BR \-Z /\c
.BR \-\-timezone
and several other
.B pcp
.I options
become indirectly available, see
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for their descriptions.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-status\fP
Display a summary of the current shell-ping collector, including
information about service refresh interval, the current command
timeout setting, count of refreshes, and the full command
line associated with each
.IR tag .
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-tags\fP
Displays the valid
.IR tag s.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pcp (1)
and
.BR pmdashping (1).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ shping [from pcp-shping]
