'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PCP 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pcp\f1,
\f3pcp-summary\f1 \- run a command or summarize an installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pcp\f1
[pcp options...]
\f2pcp-command\f1
[command options...]
.br
\f3pcp\f1
[\f3\-LPV?\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2origin\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pcp
command is used in one of two modes.
By default, it summarizes the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) installation
on the local host.
This mode can also be used to summarize the installation from a remote
.IR host ,
or a historical installation from a set of PCP
.IR archives .
This mode indirectly invokes the
.B pcp-summary
.I command
(in the absence of any other requested command).
.PP
Alternatively, a
.I command
can be passed to
.B pcp
to run, again possibly in the context of a remote
.I host
or set of historical
.IR archives .
.SH COMMAND MODE
When
.B pcp
is invoked with a command to run, it will search for the named
.IR command
in
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR
and also
.B $HOME/.pcp/bin
(these are usually scripts, and are installed with a "pcp-" prefix).
This mode of operation allows system performance tools to be
implemented using
.BR PMAPI (3)
services, while still preserving all of their usual command line
options.
These options are thus (indirectly) augmented with the standard PCP
option set, as described in
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.PP
This provides a convenient mechanism for obtaining retrospective or
remote monitoring capabilities while preserving the behaviour of the
system tools.
.PP
For example, the
.BR pcp-free (1)
utility can be invoked as follows, for recorded data from host
.IR munch :
.PP
.nf
.ft CR
$ pcp \-a $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/\fImunch\fP/20140317 \-O 11:35:50am \fBfree \-m\fP
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:         23960      14554       9406          0        176       2137
-/+ buffers/cache:      12240      11720
Swap         12047          0      12047
.ft R
.fi
.PP
A complete list of the available and installed tools is provided
along with the
.BR pcp (1)
usage message, but some examples include:
.BR pcp-free (1),
.BR pcp-uptime (1)
and
.BR pcp-numastat (1).
.SH SUMMARY MODE
The
summary report includes: the OS version, a summary of the hardware inventory,
the local timezone, the PCP software version, the state of the
.BR pmcd (1)
process and associated Performance Metrics Domain Agents
(PMDAs), as well as information about any PCP archivers (\c
.BR pmlogger (1))
and PCP inference engines (\c
.BR pmie (1))
that are running.
.PP
All of the displayed values are performance
.I metric
values and further information for each can be obtained using the command:
.in 1.0i
.ft CR
.nf

$ pminfo \-dtT \f2metric\f1

.fi
.ft R
.in
The complete set of
.IR metric s
required by
.B pcp
to produce its output is contained in
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogconf/tools/pcp-summary .
.SH SUMMARY MODE OPTIONS
With no arguments,
.B pcp
reports on the local host, however the
following options are accepted:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR \fIarchive\fR, \fB\-\-archive\fR=\fIarchive\fR
Report the PCP
configuration as described in the set of PCP archives,
.IR archive ,
which is a comma-separated list of names, each
of which may be the base name of an archive or the name of a directory containing
one or more archives.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIhost\fR
Report the PCP configuration on
.I host
rather than the local host.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-local\-PMDA\fR
Use a local context to collect metrics from DSO PMDAs on the local host
without PMCD.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space
.RB ( PMNS (5))
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-O\fR \fIorigin\fR, \fB\-\-origin\fR=\fIorigin\fR
When reporting archived metrics, start reporting at
.I origin
within the time window.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-pmie\fR
Display
.BR pmie (1)
performance information \- counts of rules evaluating to true, false, or
indeterminate, as well as the expected rate of rule calculation, for each
.B pmie
process running on the default host.
Refer to the individual metric help text for full details on these values.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pcp
will terminate with an exit status of
.B 1
if
.B pmcd
on the target host could not be reached or the set of archives could not be opened,
or
.B 2
for any other error.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $HOME/.pcp/bin
Per-user location for
.I command
scripts.
.TP
.I $PCP_BINADM_DIR
System location for installed
.I command
scripts.
.TP
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogconf/tools/pcp-summary
.BR pmlogconf (1)
configuration file for collecting all of the metrics required by
.B pcp
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.PP
For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see \fBpmGetOptions\fP(3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pcp-free (1),
.BR pcp-numastat (1),
.BR pcp-python (1),
.BR pcp-uptime (1),
.BR pcp-verify (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmie (1),
.BR pmlogconf (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ Mem dtT [from pminfo -dtT] numastat [from pcp-numstat]
