.TH PCP2GRAPHITE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
.B pcp2graphite 
\- pcp-to-graphite data pump

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pcp2graphite
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2HOST\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2ARCHIVE\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2TIMEORIGIN\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2TIMEFINISH\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2SAMPLES\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2DELTA\f1]
[\f3\-g\f1 \f2GRAPHITEHOST\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2PICKLEPORT\f1]
[\f3\-P\f1 \f2TEXTPORT\f1]
[\f3\-u\f1 \f2UNITS\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2PREFIX\f1]
\f2metricname\f1 ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.I pcp2graphite
is PCP monitor / data exporter program based on the Python PMAPI
bindings.  It relays whole hierarchies of the PMNS to a designated
Graphite (Carbon/Whisper) database by periodically polling, then
copying/converting relevant numerical metrics across the Graphite
"text" or "pickled" TCP protocols.  Metric values are optionally
scaled to a given unit/scale, but are not rate-converted.  Metric
names may be prefixed and are somewhat canonicalized to fit the
Graphite namespace rules.  One-shot conversion runs such as from
archives are not currently supported.

The data transfer will continue on a best-effort basis until the
program is interrupted.  Temporary errors are ignored.  Multiple
copies of this program may be run in parallel, to populate different
Graphite databases or subtrees, with different scaling or sampling
intervals.

Example of a systemd service file that can be used to have systemd 
managing a single instance of pcp2graphite:

.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
[Unit]
Description=Performance Co-Pilot data pump to Graphite
Documentation=man:pcp2graphite(8)
After=pmcd.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/opt/pcp/pcp2graphite.py <OPTIONS>

[Install]
WantedBy=multi\-user\&.target
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h HOST
Extract metrics from given PMCD server.
Default \f2local:\f1.

." .TP
." .B \-L
." Extract metrics from the local context PCP PMDAs.
."
.TP
.B \-a ARCHIVE
Extract metrics from given archive.

.TP
.B \-t DELTA
Specify the polling interval in seconds.  If live, polling is aligned to
natural multiples of this interval.  Default \f260\f1

.TP
.B \-O TIMEORIGIN
Set the time origin for archive scanning.  The default is the start of the archive.

.TP
.B \-T TIMEFINISH
Set the time finish for archive scanning.  The default is the end of the archive.

.TP
.B \-s SAMPLES
Set the maximum number of samples to relay.  The default is unlimited.

.TP
.B \-g GRAPHITEHOST
Specify the graphite carbon-cache server where the relayed data is to
be relayed.  Default \f2localhost\f1.

.TP
.B \-p PICKLEPORT
Select the more efficient "pickled" encoding for carbon-cache
communication, and use the given TCP port.  This is default, using
port \f22004\f1.

.TP
.B \-P TEXTPORT
Alternately, select the less efficient "text" encoding for carbon-cache
communication, and use the given TCP port.  This protocol is not
default, because it requires a separate TCP connection for each
metric.  The typical port is \f22003\f1.

.TP
.B \-u UNITS
Rescale the metrics to the given UNITS string, as parsed by the
.I pmParseUnitsStr
function.  This must be dimensionally consistent with the underlying
PCP metric.  Default is no scaling.

.TP
.B \-m PREFIX
Use the given string as a prefix for all PMNS metrics relayed to Graphite.
Default is \f2pcp.\f1 (note the period at the end).

.TP
.B metricname ...
Relay all numeric metrics nested at or below the given name in the PMNS.
This option may be repeated.  This is a compulsory option, having no
default.

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR python (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmParseUnitsStr (3),
.BR http://graphite.wikidot.com/ ,
.BR pmval (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
and
.BR pcp.conf (5).

