'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Aconex, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PCPINTRO 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3PCPIntro\f1 \- introduction to the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
.SH INTRODUCTION
.de CW
.ie t \f(CW\\$1\f1\\$2
.el \fI\\$1\f1\\$2
..
The Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) is a toolkit designed for monitoring
and managing system-level performance.
These services are distributed and scalable 
to accommodate the most complex system configurations and performance 
problems.
.PP
PCP supports many different platforms, including (but not limited
to) Linux, MacOSX, Solaris and Windows.
From a high-level PCP can be considered to contain two classes of
software utility:
.IP "\fIPCP Collectors\fR" 8
These are the parts of PCP that collect and extract
performance data from various sources, e.g. the operating system kernel.
.IP "\fIPCP Monitors\fR" 8
These are the parts of PCP that display data collected from
hosts (or archives) that have the
.I "PCP Collector"
installed.
Many monitor tools are available as part of the core PCP release,
while other (typically graphical) monitoring tools are available
separately in the PCP GUI package.
.PP
This manual entry describes the high-level features and
options common to most PCP utilities available on all platforms.
.SH OVERVIEW
The PCP architecture is distributed in the 
sense that any PCP tool may be executing remotely.  On
the host (or hosts) being monitored, each domain of performance
metrics, whether the kernel, a service layer, a database management system, a web server, an application,  etc.
requires a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA)
which is responsible for collecting performance 
measurements from that domain.
All PMDAs
are controlled by the Performance Metrics Collector Daemon
.RB ( pmcd (1))
on the same host.
.PP
Client applications (the monitoring tools) connect to
.BR pmcd (1),
which
acts as a router for requests, by
forwarding requests to the appropriate
PMDA and returning the responses to the clients.
Clients may also access performance data from a PCP archive
(created using
.BR pmlogger (1))
for retrospective analysis.
.SS Security philosophy
PCP redistributes a wealth of performance information within
a host and across its networks.  The following security
philosophy underlies the setting of several
.I defaults
that control how much information is sent and received.
.PP
By default, the information exposed by PMCD about a host is
approximately of the same level of confidentiality as available
to a completely unprivileged user on that host.  So, performance
data that is available to be
.I read
completely freely on a machine may be made available by PMCD to
the network.
.PP
However, the host running PMCD and its network is
.I not
assumed to run only friendly applications.  Therefore,
.I write
type operations, including from the local host, are not
permitted by default.
.PP
These defaults may be overridden (expanded or reduced) in several
ways, including by specifying network ACLs in
.BR pmcd.conf ,
activating non-default PMDAs, or by using PMCD connections
that pass user credentials.  For example, some PMDAs automatically
provide greater information for particular credentialed users or groups.
.PP
.SS Applications
The following performance monitoring applications are primarily console
based, typically run directly from the command line, and are just a
small subset of the tools available as part of the base PCP package.
.PP
Each tool or command is documented completely in its own reference page.
.TP
.B pmstat
Outputs an ASCII high-level summary of system performance.
.TP
.B pmie
An inference engine that can evaluate predicate-action rules to perform
alarms and automate system management tasks.
.TP
.B pminfo
Interrogate specific performance metrics and the metadata that
describes them.
.TP
.B pmlogger
Generates PCP
archives of performance metrics suitable for replay by most
PCP tools.
.TP
.B pmval
Simple periodic reporting for some or all instances of a performance
metric, with optional VCR time control.
.PP
If the PCP GUI package is installed then
the following additional tools are available.
.TP
.B pmchart
Displays trends over time of arbitrarily selected performance metrics from
one or more hosts.
.TP
.B pmtime
Time control utility for coordinating the time between multiple tools
(including pmchart and pmval).
.TP
.B pmdumptext
Produce ASCII reports for arbitrary combinations of performance
metrics.
.SH COMMON COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS
There is a set of common command line arguments that are used consistently
by most PCP tools.
.TP
.BI "\-a " archive
Performance metric information is retrospectively retrieved 
from the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
.IR archive ,
previously generated by 
.BR pmlogger (1).  See
.BR pcp-archive (5) for format documentation.
The
.B \-a
and
.B \-h
options are mutually exclusive.
.RS
.PP
.I archive
is either the base name common to all of the physical files created
by an instance of
.BR pmlogger (1),
or any one of the physical files, e.g.
.I myarchive
(base name) or
.IB myarchive .meta
(the metadata file) or
.IB myarchive .index
(the temporal index) or
.IB myarchive .0
(the first data volume of
.IR archive )
or
.IB myarchive .0.bz2
or
.IB myarchive .0.bz
(the first data volume compressed with
.BR bzip2 (1))
or
.IB myarchive .0.gz
or
.IB myarchive .0.Z
or
.IB myarchive .0.z
(the first data volume compressed with
.BR gzip (1)),
.IB myarchive .1
or
.IB myarchive .3.bz2
or
.IB myarchive .42.gz
etc.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-a " archive\f1[ , archive , \f1...]
An alternate form of
.B \-a
for applications that are able to handle multiple
archives.
.TP
.BI "\-h " hostname
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option,
or to an archive by the
.B \-a
option,
the source of performance metrics will be
the Performance Metrics Collector Daemon (PMCD)
on the local host.
Refer to the
.B "PMCD HOST SPECIFICATION"
section later for further details on the many
options available when forming the
.I hostname
specification, as well as a detailed description of
the default local host connection.
The
.B \-a
and
.B \-h
options are mutually exclusive.
.TP
.BI "\-s " samples
The argument
.I samples
defines the number of samples to be retrieved and reported.
If
.I samples
is 0 or
.B \-s
is not specified, the application
will sample and report continuously (in real time mode) or until the end
of the PCP archive (in archive mode).
.TP
.B \-z
Change the reporting timezone to the local timezone at the
host that is the source of the performance metrics, as identified via
either the
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
options.
.TP
.BI "\-Z " timezone
By default, applications
report the time of day according to the local timezone on the
system where
the application is executed.
The
.B \-Z
option changes the timezone to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
.SH INTERVAL SPECIFICATION AND ALIGNMENT
Most PCP tools operate with periodic sampling or
reporting, and the
.B \-t
and
.B \-A
options may be used to control the duration of the sample interval
and the alignment of the sample times.
.TP
.BI "\-t " interval
.RS
Set the update or reporting interval.
.PP
The
.I interval
argument
is specified as a sequence of one or more elements of the form
.nf
.in +1.0i
\f2number\f1[\f2units\f1]
.in
.fi
where \f2number\f1 is an integer or floating point constant (parsed using
.BR strtod (3))
and the optional \f2units\f1 is one of:
.BR seconds ,
.BR second ,
.BR secs ,
.BR sec ,
.BR s ,
.BR minutes ,
.BR minute ,
.BR mins ,
.BR min ,
.BR m ,
.BR hours ,
.BR hour ,
.BR h ,
.BR days ,
.B day
and
.BR d .
If the
.I unit
is empty,
.B second
is assumed.
.PP
In addition, the upper case (or mixed case) version of any of the
above is also acceptable.
.PP
Spaces anywhere in the
.I interval
are ignored, so
.BR "4 days 6 hours 30 minutes" ,
.BR "4day6hour30min" ,
.B "4d6h30m"
and
.B "4d6.5h"
are all equivalent.
.PP
Multiple specifications are additive, e.g. ``\fB1hour 15mins 30secs\fR''
is interpreted as 3600+900+30 seconds.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-A " align
.RS
By default samples are not necessarily aligned on
any natural unit of time.  The
.B \-A
option may be used to force the initial sample to be aligned on the
boundary of a natural time unit.
For example
.BR "\-A 1sec" ,
.B "\-A 30min"
and
.B "-A 1hour"
specify alignment on whole seconds, half and whole hours respectively.
.PP
The
.I align
argument follows the syntax for an
.I interval
argument described above for the
.B \-t
option.
.PP
Note that alignment occurs by advancing the time as required, and that
.B \-A
acts as a modifier to advance both the start of the time window
(see the next section)
and the origin time (if the
.B \-O
option is specified).
.RE
.SH TIME WINDOW SPECIFICATION
Many PCP tools are designed to operate in some time window of interest,
e.g. to define a termination time for real-time monitoring or to
define a start and end time within a PCP archive log.
.PP
In the absence of the
.B \-O
and
.B \-A
options to specify an initial sample time origin
and time alignment (see above), the PCP application
will retrieve the first sample at the start of the time window.
.PP
The following options may be used to specify a time window of interest.
.TP
.BI "\-S " starttime
.RS
By default the time window commences immediately in real-time mode,
or coincides with time at the start of the PCP archive log
in archive mode.
The
.B \-S
option may be used to specify a later time
for the start of the time window.
.P
The
.I starttime
parameter may be given in one of
three forms (\c
.I interval
is the same as for the
.B \-t
option as described above,
.I datetime
is described below):
.TP
\f2interval\f1
To specify an offset from the current time (in real-time mode) or
the beginning of a PCP archive (in archive mode) simply specify the
interval of time as the argument.  For example
.B "\-S 30min"
will set the start of the time window to be exactly 30 minutes from now in
real-time mode, or
exactly 30 minutes from
the start of a PCP archive.
.TP
\-\f2interval\f1
To specify an offset from the end of a PCP archive log, prefix the
\f2interval\f1 argument with a minus sign.  In this case, the
start of the time window precedes
the time at the end of archive by the given interval.
For example
.B "\-S \-1hour"
will set the start of the time window to be exactly one hour before the
time of the last sample in a PCP archive log.
.TP
@\f2datetime\f1
To specify the calendar date and time (local time in the reporting timezone)
for the start of the time window, use the datetime
syntax preceded by an at sign.  Refer to the datetime description below
for detailed information.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-T " endtime
.RS
By default the end of the time window is unbounded
(in real-time mode) or aligned with the time at the end of a PCP archive
log (in archive mode).
The
.B \-T
option may be used to specify an earlier time for
the end of the time window.
.PP
The
.I endtime
parameter may be given in one of
three forms (\c
.I interval
is the same as for the
.B \-t
option as described above,
.I datetime
is described below):
.TP
\f2interval\f1
To specify an offset from the start of the time window
simply use the interval of time as the argument.  For example
.B "\-T 2h30m"
will set the end of the time window to be 2 hours and 30 minutes after
the start of the time window.
.TP
\-\f2interval\f1
To specify an offset back from the time at the end of a PCP archive log,
prefix the \f2interval\f1 argument with a minus sign.  For example
.B "\-T \-90m"
will set the end of the time window to be 90 minutes before the time of
the last sample in a PCP archive log.
.TP
@\f2datetime\f1
To specify the calendar date and time (local time in the reporting timezone)
for the end of the time window, use the datetime
syntax preceded by an at sign.  Refer to the datetime description below
for detailed information.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-O " origin
.RS
By default samples are fetched from the start of the
time window (see description of
.B \-S
option) to the end of the time window (see description of
.B \-T
option).
The
.B \-O
option allows the specification of an origin within the time window
to be used as the initial sample time.  This
is useful for interactive use of a PCP tool with the
.BR pmtime (1)
VCR replay facility.
.PP
The \f2origin\f1 argument accepted by
.B \-O
conforms to the same syntax and semantics as the
.I starttime
argument for the
.B \-T
option.
.PP
For example
.B "\-O -0"
specifies that the initial position should be at the end of the
time window; this is most useful when wishing to replay ``backwards''
within the time window.
.RE
.PP
The \f2datetime\f1 argument for the
.BR \-O ,
.B \-S
and
.B \-T
options consists of: 
.br
.ti +1i
.B "date time zone day relative"
.br
A date can be one of:
YY-MM-DD, MM/DD/YY, DD Month YYYY, or Month DD YYYY.
A time can be one of: HH:MM:SS, HH:MM.  HH:MM can use either the
12 hour (via an am or pm suffix) or 24 hour convention.
A day of the
week can be a spelled out day of the week, optionally preceded by an
ordinal number such as second tuesday.  A zone is a time zone value as
specified by the
.B tzselect(1)
command.  A relative time can be a time
unit that is: preceded by a cardinal number such as 1 year or 2 months,
preceded by one of the time words this or last, or succeeded by the time word ago.
A relative time can also be one of the time words: yesterday, today, tomorrow, now.
Examples of datetime strings are: 
.BR "1996-03-04 13:07:47 EST Mon" ,
.BR "1996-03-05 14:07:47 EST -1hour" ,
.BR "Mon Mar  4 13:07:47 1996" ,
.BR "Mar 4 1996" ,
.BR "Mar 4" , 
.BR "Mar" , 
.B "13:07:50" 
or
.BR "13:08" .
.PP
For any missing low order fields, the default value of
0 is assumed for hours, minutes and seconds, 1 for day of the month and Jan for months.
Hence, the following are equivalent:
.B "\-S '@ Mar 1996'"
and
.BR "\-S '@ Mar 1 00:00:00 1996'" .
.PP
If any high order fields are missing, they are filled in by
starting with the
year, month and day from the current time (real-time mode) or
the time at the beginning of the PCP archive log (archive mode)
and advancing the
time until it matches the fields that are specified.
So, for example if the time window starts by default at
``Mon Mar 4 13:07:47 1996'',
then
.B "\-S @13:10"
corresponds to 13:10:00 on Mon Mar 4, 1996,
while
.B "\-S @10:00"
corresponds to 10:00:00 on Tue Mar 5, 1996 (note this is the
following day).
.PP
For greater precision than afforded by
.BR datetime (3),
the seconds component may be a floating point number.
.SH "PERFORMANCE METRICS \- NAMES AND IDENTIFIERS"
The number of performance metric names supported by PCP on most
platforms ranges from many hundreds to several thousand.
The PCP libraries and applications use an internal
identification scheme that unambiguously associates a single
integer with each known performance metric.
This integer is known as the Performance Metric Identifier, or PMID.
Although not a requirement,
PMIDs tend to have global consistency across
all systems, so a particular performance metric usually has the same
PMID.
.PP
For all users and most applications, direct use of the PMIDs would be inappropriate
(e.g. this would limit the range of accessible metrics, make the code
hard to maintain, force the user interface to be particularly baroque,
etc.).
Hence a Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS)
is used to provide external names and
a hierarchic classification for performance metrics.
A PMNS is
represented as a tree, with each node having a label, a pointer to
either a PMID (for leaf nodes) or a set of descendent
nodes in the PMNS (for non-leaf nodes).
.PP
A node label must begin with
an alphabetic character, followed by zero or more characters drawn
from the alphabetics, the digits and character \`_\' (underscore).
For alphabetic characters in a node label, upper and
lower case are distinguished.
.PP
By convention, the name of a performance metric is constructed by
concatenation of the node labels on a path through the PMNS from the
root node to a leaf node, with a ``.'' as a separator.
The root node in
the PMNS is unlabeled, so all names begin with the label associated
with one of the descendent nodes below the root node of the PMNS, e.g. \c
.CW "kernel.percpu.syscall".
Typically (although this is not a requirement)
there would be at most one name for each PMID in a PMNS.
For example
.CW kernel.all.cpu.idle
and
.CW disk.dev.read
are the unique names for two distinct performance
metrics, each with a unique PMID.
.PP
Groups of related PMIDs may be named
by naming a non-leaf node in the PMNS tree, e.g. \c
.CW disk .
.PP
The default local PMNS used by
.B pmcd
is located at
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/root
however the environment
variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
may be set to the full pathname of a different PMNS which will
then be used as the default local PMNS.
.PP
Most applications do not use the local PMNS directly,
but rather import parts of the PMNS as required from the
same place that performance metrics are fetched, i.e. from
.BR pmcd (1)
for live monitoring or from a PCP archive for retrospective
monitoring.
.PP
To explore the PMNS
use
.BR pminfo (1),
or if the PCP GUI package is installed the New Chart and Metric Search
windows within
.BR pmchart (1).
.SH PERFORMANCE METRIC SPECIFICATIONS
In configuration files and (to a lesser extent) command line options,
metric specifications adhere to the following syntax rules.
.PP
If the source of performance metrics is real-time from
.BR pmcd (1)
then the accepted
syntax is
.br
.ti +1i
\fIhost\fB:\fImetric\fB[\fIinstance1\fB,\fIinstance2\fB,\fR...\fB]\fR
.PP
If the source of performance metrics is a PCP archive log then the
accepted syntax
is
.br
.ti +1i
\fIarchive\fB/\fImetric\fB[\fIinstance1\fB,\fIinstance2\fB,\fR...\fB]\fR
.PP
The
.IB host :\fR,
.IB archive /
and
\fB[\fIinstance1\fB,\fIinstance2\fB,\fR...\fB]\fR
components are all optional.
.PP
The
.B ,
delimiter in the list of instance names
may be replaced by white space.
.PP
Special characters in
.I instance
names may be escaped by surrounding the name in double quotes or preceding
the character with a backslash.
.PP
White space is ignored everywhere except within a quoted
.I instance
name.
.PP
An empty
.I instance
is silently ignored, and in particular
``\fB[]\fR'' is the same as no
.IR instance ,
while ``\fB[one,,,two]\fR'' is parsed as specifying just
the two instances ``\fBone\fP'' and ``\fBtwo\fP''.
.PP
As a special case, if the
.B host
is the single character ``@'' then this refers to a 
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
source, see
.BR pmNewContext (3).
.SH SECURE PMCD CONNECTIONS
Since PCP version 3.6.11, a monitor can explicitly request
a secure connection to a collector host running
.BR pmcd (1)
or
.BR pmproxy (1)
using the PM_CTXFLAG_SECURE context flag.
If the PCP Collector host supports this feature - refer to the
pmcd.feature.secure metric for confirmation of this - a TLS/SSL
(Transport Layer Security or Secure Sockets Layer) connection
can be established which uses public key cryptography and related
techniques.
These features aim to prevent eavesdropping and data tampering
from a malicious third party, as well as providing server-side
authentication (confident identification of a server by a client)
which can be used to guard against man-in-the-middle attacks.
.PP
A secure
.B pmcd
connection requires use of certificate-based authentication.
The security features offered by
.B pmcd
and
.B pmproxy
are implemented using the Network Security Services (NSS) APIs and
utilities.
The NSS
.BR certutil
tool can be used to create certificates suitable for establishing
trust between PCP monitor and collector hosts.
.PP
A complete description is beyond the scope of this document, refer
to the
.BR "PCP ENVIRONMENT" ,
.B "FILES"
and
.B "SEE ALSO"
sections for detailed information.
This includes links to tutorials on the steps involved in setting up the
available security features.
.SH PMCD HOST SPECIFICATION
In the absence of an explicit host name specification, most tools
will default to the local host in live update mode.
In PCP releases since 3.8.4 onward, this results in an efficient
local protocol being selected \- typically a Unix domain socket.
If this option is used (which can also be explicitly requested
via the
.I unix:
host specification described below), it is important to note that all
connections will be automatically authenticated. In other words, the
credentials of the user invoking a client tool will automatically be
made available to
.BR pmcd (1)
and all of its PMDAs, on the users behalf, such that results can be
customized to the privilege levels of individual users.
.PP
Names of remote hosts running the
.BR pmcd (1)
daemon can of course also be provided to request a remote host be used.
The most basic form of 
.B pmcd
host specification is a simple host name, possibly including the
domain name if necessary.
However, this can be extended in a number of ways to further refine
attributes of the connection made to
.BR pmcd .
.PP
The
.B pmcd
port number and also optional
.BR pmproxy (1)
hostname and its port number, can be given as part of the host
specification, since PCP version 3.0.
These supersede (and override) the old-style PMCD_PORT, PMPROXY_HOST
and PMPROXY_PORT environment variables.
.PP
The following are valid hostname specifications that specify connections to
.B pmcd
on host
.I nas1.servers.com
with/without a list of ports and with/without a
.BR pmproxy (1)
connection through a firewall.
.PP
.in +0.5i
.nf
.ft CW
$ pcp \-h nas1.servers.com:44321,4321@firewall.servers.com:44322
$ pcp \-h nas1.servers.com:44321@firewall.servers.com:44322
$ pcp \-h nas1.servers.com:44321@firewall.servers.com
$ pcp \-h nas1.servers.com@firewall.servers.com
$ pcp \-h nas1.servers.com:44321
.ft R
.fi
.in
.PP
In addition, security attributes and credentials can also be specified.
These include username, an optional password (can be given interactively
and may depend on the authentication mechanism employed), whether to use
secure (encrypted) or native (naked) protocol, and so on. The previous
examples all default to native protocol, and use no authentication.
This can be altered, as in the following examples.
.PP
.in +0.5i
.nf
.ft CW
$ pcp \-h pcps://nas1.servers.com:44321?username=tanya&method=gssapi
$ pcp \-h pcps://nas2.servers.com@firewalls.r.us?method=plain
$ pcp \-h pcp://nas3.servers.com
$ pcp \-h unix:
$ pcp \-h local:
.ft R
.fi
.in
.PP
The choice of authentication method, and other resulting parameters like
username, optionally password, etc, depends on the SASL2 configuration
used by each (remote)
.BR pmcd .
Tutorials are available specifying various aspects of configuring the
authentication module(s) used, these fine details are outside the scope
of this document.
.PP
The final
.I local:
example above is now the default for most tools.
This connection is an automatically authenticated local host connection
on all platforms that support Unix domain sockets.  No password is required
and authentication is automatic.  This is also the most efficient (lowest
overhead) communication channel available.
.PP
The difference between
.I unix:
and
.I local:
is that the former is a strict Unix domain socket specification (connection
fails if it cannot connect that way),
whereas the latter has a more forgiving fallback to using
.I localhost
(i.e. a regular Inet socket connection is used when Unix domain socket
connections are unavailable).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
In addition to the PCP run-time environment and configuration variables
described in the 
.B "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
section below,
the following environment variables apply to all installations.
.TP
.B PCP_CONSOLE
When set, this changes the default console from
.I /dev/tty
(on Unix)
or
.I CON:
(on Windows)
to be the specified console.
The special value of
.I none
can be used to indicate no console is available for use.
This is used in places where console-based tools need to interact
with the user, and in particular is used when authentication is
being performed.
.TP
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONFIG
When set, this variable defines a colon separated list of
files and/or directories (the syntax is the same as for the
.B $PATH
variable for
.BR sh (1)).
The components are expanded into a list of files as follows: 
if a component of
.B $PCP_DERIVED_CONFIG
is a file, then that file is added to the list, else if a component
is a directory then recursive descent is used to enumerate all
files below that directory and these are added to the list.
.RS
.PP
Each file in the resulting list is assumed to 
contain
definitions of derived metrics as per the syntax described in
.BR pmLoadDerivedConfig (3),
and these are loaded in order.
.PP
Derived metrics may be used to extend the available metrics with
new (derived) metrics using simple arithmetic expressions.
.PP
If 
.B PCP_DERIVED_CONFIG
is set, the derived metric definitions are processed automatically
as each new source of performance metrics is established (i.e. each
time a
.BR pmNewContext (3)
is called) or when requests are made against the PMNS.
.PP
Any component in the
.B $PCP_DERIVED_CONFIG
list or the expanded list of files that is not a file, or is not a directory
or is not accessible (due to permissions or a bad symbolic link) will
be silently ignored.
.RE
.TP
.B PCP_SECURE_SOCKETS
When set, this variable forces any monitor tool connections to be
established using the certificate-based secure sockets feature.
If the connections cannot be established securely, they will fail.
.TP
.B PCP_SECURE_DB_METHOD
With secure socket connections, the certificate and key database is
stored using the
.B sql:
method by default.  Use
.B PCP_SECURE_DB_METHOD
to override the default, most usually setting the value to the empty
string (for the older database methods).
.TP
.B PCP_STDERR
Many PCP tools support the environment variable
.BR PCP_STDERR ,
which can be used to
control where error messages are sent.
When unset, the default behavior is that
``usage'' messages and option parsing errors are
reported on standard error, other messages after
initial startup are sent to the default destination for the tool,
i.e. standard error for ASCII tools, or a dialog for GUI tools.
.RS
.PP
If
.B PCP_STDERR
is set to the literal value
.B DISPLAY
then all messages will be displayed in a dialog.
This is used for any tools launched from the a Desktop environment.
.PP
If
.B PCP_STDERR
is set to any other value, the value is assumed to
be a filename, and all messages will be written there.
.RE
.TP
.B PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
When attempting to connect to a remote
.BR pmcd (1)
on a machine that is booting,
the connection attempt
could potentially block for a long time until the remote machine
finishes its initialization.
Most PCP applications and some of the PCP library routines
will abort and return an error if the connection has not been established after
some specified interval has elapsed.  The default interval is 5
seconds.  This may be modified by setting
.B PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
in the environment to a real number of seconds for the
desired timeout.
This is most useful in cases where the remote host is at
the end of a slow network, requiring longer latencies to
establish the connection correctly.
.TP
.B PMCD_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT
When a monitor or client application loses a connection to a
.BR pmcd (1),
the connection may be re-established by calling
a service routine in the PCP library.
However, attempts to reconnect are controlled by a back-off
strategy to avoid flooding the network with reconnection
requests.
By default, the back-off delays are 5, 10, 20, 40 and 80
seconds for consecutive reconnection requests from a client
(the last delay will be repeated for any further
attempts after the fifth).
Setting the environment variable
.B PMCD_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT
to a comma separated list of positive integers will re-define
the back-off delays, e.g. setting
.B PMCD_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT
to ``1,2'' will back-off for 1 second, then attempt another
connection request every 2 seconds thereafter.
.TP
.B PMCD_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
For monitor or client applications connected to
.BR pmcd (1),
there is a possibility of the application "hanging" on a request
for performance metrics or metadata or help text.
These delays may become severe if the system
running
.B pmcd
crashes, or the network connection is lost.  By setting the environment
variable
.B PMCD_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
to a number of seconds, requests to
.B pmcd
will timeout after this number of seconds.  The default behavior is
to be willing to wait 10 seconds for a response from every
.B pmcd
for all applications.
.TP
.B PMCD_WAIT_TIMEOUT
.br
When
.BR pmcd (1)
is started from
.B $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp
then the primary instance of
.BR pmlogger (1)
will be started if the configuration flag
.B pmlogger
is
.BR chkconfig (8)
enabled and
.B pmcd
is running and accepting connections.
.RS
.PP
The check on
.BR pmcd 's
readiness will wait up to
.B PMCD_WAIT_TIMEOUT
seconds.
If
.B pmcd
has a long startup time (such as on a very large
system), then 
.B PMCD_WAIT_TIMEOUT
can be set to provide a maximum wait longer than the default 60 seconds.
.RE
.TP
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
If set, then interpreted as the
full pathname to be used as the default local PMNS for
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3).
Otherwise, the default local PMNS is located at
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pcp/pmns/root
for base PCP installations.
.TP
.B PCP_COUNTER_WRAP
Many of the performance metrics exported from PCP agents have the
semantics of
.I counter
meaning they are expected to be monotonically increasing.
Under some circumstances, one value of these metrics may smaller
than the previously fetched value.
This can happen when a counter of finite precision overflows, or
when the PCP agent has been reset or restarted, or when the
PCP agent is exporting values from some
underlying instrumentation that is subject to some asynchronous
discontinuity.

The environment variable
.B PCP_COUNTER_WRAP
may be set to indicate that all such cases of a decreasing ``counter''
should be treated
as a counter overflow, and hence the values are assumed to have
wrapped once in the interval between consecutive samples.
This ``wrapping'' behavior was the default in earlier PCP versions, but
by default has been disabled in PCP release from version 1.3 on.
.TP
.B PMDA_PATH
The
.B PMDA_PATH
environment variable
may be used to modify the search path used by
.BR pmcd (1)
and
.BR pmNewContext (3)
(for
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
contexts) when searching for a daemon or DSO PMDA.
The syntax follows that for
.B PATH
in
.BR sh (1),
i.e. a colon separated list of directories,
and the default search path is ``/var/pcp/lib:/usr/pcp/lib'',
(or ``/var/lib/pcp/lib'' on Linux, depending on the value
of the $PCP_VAR_DIR environment variable).
.TP
.B PMCD_PORT
The TPC/IP port(s) used by
.BR pmcd (1)
to create the socket for incoming connections and requests, was
historically 4321 and more recently the officially registered port
44321; in the current release,
.B both
port numbers are used by default as a transitional arrangement.
This may be over-ridden by setting
.B PMCD_PORT
to a different port number, or a comma-separated list of port numbers.
If a non-default port is used when
.B pmcd
is started, then
every monitoring application connecting to that
.B pmcd
must also have
.B PMCD_PORT
set in their environment before attempting a connection.
.PP
The following environment variables are relevant to installations
in which 
.BR pmlogger (1),
the PCP archive logger, is used.
.TP
.B PMLOGGER_PORT
The environment variable
.B PMLOGGER_PORT
may be used to change the base TCP/IP port number used by
.BR pmlogger (1)
to create the socket to which
.BR pmlc (1)
instances will try and connect.
The default base port number is 4330.
When used,
.B PMLOGGER_PORT
should be set in the environment before
.B pmlogger
is executed.
.TP
.B PMLOGGER_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
When
.BR pmlc (1)
connects to
.BR pmlogger (1),
there is a remote possibility of
.BR pmlc
\&"hanging" on a request
for information as a consequence of a failure of the network or
.BR pmlogger .
By setting the environment
variable
.B PMLOGGER_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
to a number of seconds, requests to
.B pmlogger
will timeout after this number of seconds.  The default behavior is
to be willing to wait forever for a response from each request to a
.BR pmlogger .
When used,
.B PMLOGGER_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
should be set in the environment before
.B pmlc
is executed.
.PP
If you have the PCP product installed, then the following
environment variables are relevant to the Performance Metrics
Domain Agents (PMDAs).
.TP
.B PMDA_LOCAL_PROC
Use this variable has been deprecated and it is now ignored.
If the ``proc'' PMDA is configured as a DSO for use with
.BR pmcd (1)
on the local host then all of the ``proc'' metrics will be
available to applications using a
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
context.
.RS
.PP
The previous behaviour was that
if this variable was set, then a context established with the
.I type
of
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
will have access to the ``proc'' PMDA to retrieve performance metrics
about individual processes.
.RE
.TP
.B PMDA_LOCAL_SAMPLE
Use this variable has been deprecated and it is now ignored.
If the ``sample'' PMDA is configured as a DSO for use with
.BR pmcd (1)
on the local host then all of the ``sample'' metrics will be
available to applications using a
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
context.
.RS
.PP
The previous behaviour was that
if this variable was set, then a context established with the
.I type
of
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
will have access to the ``sample'' PMDA if this optional PMDA has
been installed locally.
.RE
.TP
.B PMIECONF_PATH
If set,
.BR pmieconf (1)
will form its
.BR pmieconf (5)
specification (set of parameterized
.BR pmie (1)
rules) using all valid
.B pmieconf
files found below each subdirectory in this
colon-separated list of subdirectories.  If not set, the default is
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmieconf .
.SH FILES 
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B /etc/pcp.conf
Configuration file for the PCP runtime environment,
see
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.TP
.B /etc/pki/nssdb
Optionally contains a Network Security Services database with a
"PCP Collector" certificate providing trusted identification for
the collector host.
.TP
.B $HOME/.pcp
User-specific directories containing configuration files for
customisation of the various monitor tools, such as
.BR pmchart (1).
.TP
.B $HOME/.pki/nssdb
A shared Network Security Services (NSS) database directory
containing per-user certificates identifying known valid remote
.B pmcd
collector hosts.
The NSS
.B certutil
tool is one of several that can be used to maintain this database.
.TP
.B $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp
Script for starting and stopping
.BR pmcd (1).
.TP
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
Control file for
.BR pmcd (1).
.TP
.B $PCP_PMCDOPTIONS_PATH
Command line options passed to
.BR pmcd (1)
when it is started from
.BR $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp .
All the command line option lines should start with a hyphen as
the first character.
This file can also contain environment variable settings of
the form "VARIABLE=value".
.TP
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR
Location of PCP utilities for collecting and maintaining PCP archives, PMDA
help text, PMNS files etc.
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR
Parent directory of the installation directory for Dynamic Shared Object (DSO) PMDAs.
.TP
.B $PCP_RUN_DIR/pmcd.pid
If pmcd is running, this file contains an ascii decimal representation of its
process ID.
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd
Default location of log files for
.BR pmcd (1),
current directory for running PMDAs.
Archives generated by
.BR pmlogger (1)
are generally below
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger .
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/pmcd.log
Diagnostic and status log for the current running
.BR pmcd (1)
process.
The first place to look when there are problems associated
with
.BR pmcd .
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/pmcd.log.prev
Diagnostic and status log for the previous
.BR pmcd (1)
instance.
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES
Log of 
.BR pmcd (1)
and 
PMDA starts, stops, additions and removals.
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config
Contains directories of configuration files for several PCP tools.
.TP
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmcd/rc.local
Local script for controlling PCP boot, shutdown and restart actions.
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns
Directory containing the set of PMNS files for all installed PMDAs.
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/root
The ASCII
.BR pmns (5)
exported by
.BR pmcd (1)
by default.  This PMNS is be the super set of all other PMNS files
installed in
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns .
.PP
In addition, if the PCP product is installed the following
files and directories are relevant.
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES
In addition to the 
.BR pmcd (1)
and PMDA activity, may be used to log alarms and notices from
.BR pmie (1)
via
.BR pmpost (1).
.TP
.B $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
Control file for
.BR pmlogger (1)
instances launched from
.B $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp
and/or managed by
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
and
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
as part of a production PCP archive collection setup.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmie (1),
.BR pmie_daily (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogger_daily (1),
.BR pmstat (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR pcp (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5),
.BR pmns (5)
and
.BR chkconfig (8).
.PP
If the PCP GUI package is installed, then the
following entries are also relevant:
.br
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmtime (1),
and
.BR pmdumptext (1).
.PP
If the secure sockets extensions have been enabled, then the
following references are also relevant:
.br
.I "http://www.pcp.io/documentation.html"
.br
.I "http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/nss/#documentation"
.br
.I "http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/nss/tools/certutil.html"
.PP
Also refer to the books 
.I "Performance Co-Pilot User's and Administrator's Guide"
and
.IR "Performance Co-Pilot Programmer's Guide"
which can be found at http://www.pcp.io/
