'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMAFM 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmafm\f1 \- Performance Co-Pilot archive folio manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmafm\f1 \f2folioname\f1
[\f2command\f1 [\f2arg\f1 ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A collection of one or more Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive
logs may be combined with a control file to produce a PCP archive folio.
Archive folios are created using either
.BR mkaf (1)
or the interactive ``record mode'' services of PCP clients like
.BR pmchart (1).
.PP
.B pmafm
provides a number of services that may be used to process folios.
In particular, it provides support for execution of PCP tools using one
or more of the component
archive logs within an archive folio.
.PP
The target folio is identified by the folio control file
.IR folioname .
The syntax for a folio control file is described in
.BR mkaf (1).
.PP
If present, the command and arguments following
.I folioname
are interpreted and executed as a single command,
otherwise commands are read from standard input.
.PP
The following commands are supported.
.TP
.B archives
Subsequent commands apply to all archives in the folio.
.TP
\f3archives\f1 \f2N\f1[,...]
Archives within a folio are numbered 1, 2, etc.
Subsequent commands are restricted to apply only to
the designated archives.
.TP
\f3archives\f1 \f2name\f1[,...]
Archives within a folio have unique names.
Subsequent commands are restricted to apply only to
the designated archives.
.TP
.B check
Validate the presence and format of each file in the
folio and the component archives.
.TP
.B help
.br
A brief reminder of the command syntax.
.B ?
is a synonym for
.BR help .
.TP
.B hosts
.br
Subsequent commands apply to all archives in the folio.
.TP
\f3hosts\f1 \f2hostname\f1[,...]
Subsequent commands are restricted to apply only to
those archives that match the designated hostnames.
.TP
\f3list\f1 [\f3verbose\f1]
Display the contents of the folio.  By default the control header
and the ordinal number, hostname and archive base name for each archive
in the folio.
The
.B verbose
option causes
.B pmafm
to dump the label record from each archive using
.BR "pmdumplog \-l" .
.if t .sp 0.5v
.IP ""
The first named archive in the folio is assumed to be
associated with the default host for any tool that tries to
replay multiple archives from the folio.
.if t .sp
.TP
.BR quit
.br
Exit
.BR pmafm .
.TP
.BR remove
.br
Echo on standard output the
.BR sh (1)
commands required to remove all of the physical files associated with
this archive folio.
.TP
\f3repeat\f1 \f2tool\f1 [\f2arg\f1 ...]
Execute the known PCP
.I tool
once per selected archive.  For example, the command
.br
.ti +5n
.ft CW
repeat pmval \-t60 kernel.all.load
.br
would run
.BR pmval (1)
once per archive, with an appropriate
.B \-a
argument.
.TP
.B replay
.br
Some archive folios are created by tools
(e.g. \c
.BR pmchart (1))
that provide
sufficient information to allow all of the information
in all of the archives of a folio to be replayed.
.TP
[\f3run\f1] \f2tool\f1 [\f2arg\f1 ...]
Execute the known PCP
.I tool
on the selected archives.
Some PCP tools are able to process multiple concurrent
archives, and in this case the tool is run once with
the list of all selected archives passed via a
.B \-a
argument.
Otherwise, this command is synonymous with
.BR repeat .
.TP
.B selections
Display those archives that would be selected for 
processing with a
.BR repeat ,
.B replay
or
.B run
command.
.PP
The restrictions via any
.B hosts
and
.B archives
commands are conjuncted.
These restrictions serve to limit the specific archives
processed in the subsequent
.BR repeat ,
.BR replay ,
.B run
and
.B selections
commands.
By default, all archives are selected.
.PP
Keywords in commands may be abbreviated provided no ambiguity
is introduced, e.g.
.BR help ,
.B hel
and
.B he
are synonymous,
but
.B h
is ambiguous.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmafm/ *
control files that define the behavior of each PCP tool
known to
.BR pmafm .
This information may be customized or extended, see
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmafm/pcp
for documentation of the syntax and semantics of these files.
.TP
.BI $HOME/.pcp/pmafm/ *
User customization of the control files.  All files in this
directory are treated in the same manner as control files in
the
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmafm
directory.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mkaf (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmRecordSetup (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Many, but all are intended to be easily understood.
