'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMATOP 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmatop\f1 \- System and Process Monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
Interactive usage:
.P
.B pmatop
[\-g|\-m] [\-L \f2linelen\f1] [\-h \f2host\f1 | \-a \f2archive\f1]
[\f2interval\f1 [\f2samples\f1]]
.P
Writing and reading PCP archive folios:
.P
.BR pmatop
\-w \f2rawfile\f1 [\f2interval\f1 [\f2samples\f1]]
.br
.B pmatop
\-r [\f2rawfile\f1] [\-g|\-m] [\-L \f2linelen\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.B pmatop
is an interactive monitor to view the load on a Linux system.
It shows the occupation of the most critical hardware resources 
(from a performance point of view) on system level, i.e. cpu, memory, disk
and network.  By default metrics from the local host are
displayed, but a different host may be specified with the 
.IR \-h/\-\-host
option, or from a PCP archive using the
.IR \-a/\-\-archive
option.
.PP
It is modeled on
.BR atop (1)
and provides a showcase for the variety of data available from
.BR pmcd (1).
.br
.PP
Every
.I interval
(default: 10 seconds) information is shown about the resource occupation
on system level (cpu, memory, disks and network layers), followed
by a list of processes which have been active during the last interval
If the list of active processes does not entirely fit on
the screen, only the top of the list is shown.
.br
The intervals are repeated till the number of
.I samples
(specified as command argument) is reached, or till the key 'q' is pressed
in interactive mode.
.PP
When 
.B pmatop
is started, it checks whether the standard output channel is connected to a
screen, or to a file/pipe. In the first case it produces screen control 
codes (via the ncurses library) and behaves interactively; in the second case
it produces flat ASCII-output.
.PP
In interactive mode, the output of 
.B pmatop
scales dynamically to the current dimensions of the screen/window.
.PP
Furthermore in interactive mode the output of 
.B pmatop
can be controlled by pressing particular keys.
However it is also possible to specify such key as
.I flag
on the command line. In that case
.B pmatop
switches to the indicated mode on beforehand; this mode can 
be modified again interactively. Specifying such key as flag is especially
useful when running
.B pmatop
with output to a pipe or file (non-interactively).
These flags are the same as the keys that can be pressed in interactive
mode (see section INTERACTIVE COMMANDS).
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The output of 
.B pmatop
consists of system level and process level information.  The system
level information consists of the following output lines:
.PP
.TP 5
.B PRC
Process and thread level totals.
.br
This line contains the total cpu time consumed 
in system mode (`sys') and in user mode (`user'),
the total number of processes present at this moment (`#proc'),
`sleeping interruptible' (`#tslpi') and `sleeping uninterruptible' (`#tslpu'),
and the number of zombie processes (`#zombie').
.PP
.TP 5
.B CPU
The occupation percentage of this process related to the available capacity
for this resource on system level.
.br
This line contains the total CPU usage in system mode, in user mode,
in irq mode, in idle mode, and in wait mode.  The 
.B cpu
lines contain this information on a per cpu basis.
.PP
.TP 5
.B CPL
This line contains load average information for the last minute, five
minutes, and fifteen minutes.  Also the number of context switches and
the number of device interrupts.
.PP
.TP 5
.B MEM
This line contains the size of physical memory, free memory, page
cache, buffer cache, and slab.
.PP
.TP 5
.B SWP
This line contains the size of swap, free swap, committed space, and
committed space limit.
.PP
.TP 5
.B PAG
This line contains the number of page scans, allocstalls, swapins, and
swapouts.
.PP
.TP 5
.B LVM/MDD/DSK
For every logical volume/multiple device/hard disk one line is shown
containing the nàme, number of reads, and number of writes.
.PP
.TP 5
.B NET
The first line is for the upper TCP/IP layer and contains the number
of packets received, packets transmitted, packets received.  The next
line is one per network interface and contains the number of packets
received and number of packets transmitted.
.PP
.TP 5
.B PROCESS
The remaining lines are one line per process and can be controlled as
described below.
.SH INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
When running
.B pmatop
interactively (no output redirection), keys can be pressed to control the
output.
.PP
.TP 5
.B g
Show generic output (default).

Per process the following fields are shown in case of a window-width
of 80 positions:
process-id, cpu consumption during
the last interval in system- and user mode, the virtual and resident
memory growth of the process.

The subsequent columns are the username, number of threads in the
thread group, the status and exit code are shown.
.br
The last columns contain the state, the occupation percentage for the
chosen resource (default: cpu) and the process name.

When more than 80 positions are available, other information is added.
.PP
.TP 5
.B m
Show memory related output.

Per process the following fields are shown in case of a window-width
of 80 positions:
process-id, minor and major
memory faults, size of virtual shared text, total virtual 
process size, total resident process size, virtual and resident growth during
last interval, memory occupation percentage and process name.

When more than 80 positions are available, other information is added.
.PP
Miscellaneous interactive commands:
.PP
.TP 5
.B ?
Request for help information (also the key 'h' can be pressed).
.PP
.TP 5
.B z
The pause key can be used to freeze the current situation in order to
investigate the output on the screen. While 
.B pmatop
is paused, the keys described above can be pressed to show other
information about the current list of processes.
Whenever the pause key is pressed again,
.B pmatop
will continue with a next sample.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR atop (1),
.BR python (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmprobe (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
and
.BR pcp.conf (5).
