'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMCD_WAIT 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmcd_wait\f1 \- wait for PMCD to accept client connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmcd_wait\f1
[\f3\-v?\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2timeout\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmcd_wait
waits for the Performance
Metrics Collector Daemon (PMCD) to be running and accepting client connections.
.P
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option,
.B pmcd_wait
will try to contact
.BR pmcd (1)
on the local host.
.P
.B pmcd_wait
will timeout and abandon the attempt to connect to
.B pmcd
after 60 seconds.
This default timeout interval may be changed using the
.B \-t
option, where the
.I interval
argument follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1)
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer (the implied
units in this case are seconds).
.P
On successful connection to
.B pmcd
an exit status of zero is returned.
.PP
If an error or timeout occurs, then a non-zero exit status is returned
as described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIhost\fR
Connect
.BR pmcd (1)
on
.IR host ,
rather than the one on the default localhost.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR timeout\fI\fR, \fB\-\-interval\fR=\fItimeout\fR
Timeout after \fItimeout\fR seconds if not connected.
The default timeout value is 60 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
This option turns the verbose mode on.
With the verbose mode off
(which is the default), no output will be generated.
With verbose mode on, error messages will be output on
.IR stderr .
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages will be output to
.I stderr
only if the verbose mode is on.
.P
The following exit status codes are returned:
.TP
.B 0
.B pmcd_wait
was able to successfully connect to
.B pmcd
within the timeout period.
.TP
.B 1
A usage error occurred, use
.B \-v
for more details.
.TP
.B 2
No connection was made in the timeout interval.
This will happen if
.B pmcd
is running but
takes too long to complete the client connection, or if
.B pmcd
is not running and all connection attempts in the timeout
interval failed with the error ECONNREFUSED.
.TP
.B 3
A U\s-2NIX\s+2 error occurred, use
.B \-v
for more details.
.TP
.B 4
A PCP error occurred, use
.B \-v
for more details.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
