'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Aconex.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014-2016,2019, Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMCHART 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmchart\f1 \- strip chart tool for Performance Co-Pilot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmchart\f1
[\f3\-CLVWz?\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-A\f1 \f2align\f1]
[\fB\-\-archive\-folio\fP \fIfolio\fP]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2configfile\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-f\f1 \f2fontfamily\f1]
[\f3\-F\f1 \f2fontsize\f1]
[\f3\-g\f1 \f2geometry\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-o\f1 \f2outfile\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2offset\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2samples\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-v\f1 \f2visible\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
[\f3\-geometry\f1 \f2geometry\f1]
[\f2sources\f1...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmchart
is a graphical utility that plots performance metrics values
available through the facilities of the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP).
Multiple charts can be displayed simultaneously, either aligned
on the unified time axis (X-axis), and through the use of multiple
interface Tabs.
.PP
Metric values can be sourced from one or more live hosts
(simultaneously).
Alternatively, one or more sets of PCP archives
can be used as a source of historical data.
See
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for an in-depth discussion of the capabilities of the PCP
framework, many of which are used by
.B pmchart.
.PP
Many aspects of the behaviour of
.B pmchart
can be customised through the interface.
In particular, the use of "views" (refer to the section describing
VIEWS later in this document)
allows predefined sets of metrics and charting parameters
like colors, scaling, titles, legends, and so on to be stored for
later use, or use with different hosts and sets of archives.
In addition, the Preferences dialog allows customisations to the
rest of the
.B pmchart
user interface to be saved and restored between different invocations
of the tool.
This allows the default background color, highlight color, contents
and location of the toolbar, and many other aspects to be configured.
.PP
.B pmchart
makes extensive use of the
.BR pmtime (1)
utility for time control, refer to the
.B pmtime
manual page for further details of its operation.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR \fIarchive\fR, \fB\-\-archive\fR=\fIarchive\fR
Performance metric values are retrieved from the set of Performance Co-Pilot
(PCP) archives identified by this option, by default.
The argument is a comma-separated list of names, each of which may be the
base name of an archive or the name of a directory containing one or more
archives.
The resulting set of archives will be the source of the performance metrics.
The initial Tab created will be an archive mode Tab.
Multiple
.B \-a
options can be presented, and the resulting list of sets of archives is used
for sourcing metric values.
Any \f2sources\f1 listed on the command line are assumed to be sets of archives
if this option is used.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR \fIalign\fR, \fB\-\-align\fR=\fIalign\fR
Force the initial sample to be
aligned on the boundary of a natural time unit
.IR align .
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR align .
.TP
\fB\-\-archive\-folio\fR=\fIfolio\fR
Read metric source archives from the PCP archive
.IR folio .
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIconfigfile\fR, \fB\-\-view\fR=\fIconfigfile\fR
.I configfile
specifies an initial view to load, using the default source of metrics.
Multiple
.B \-c
views can be specified, and they will all be opened in the
default Tab with the default source of metrics.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
Used with
.BR \-c ,
the view(s) are parsed, any errors are reported, and the tool exits.
This is primarily intended for testing purposes.
If a second
.B \-C
option is presented,
.B pmchart
also connects to
.BR pmcd (1)
to check the semantics of metrics.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIfamily\fR, \fB\-\-font-family\fR=\fIfamily\fR
Specify the default font
.I family
to be used in several chart components,
such as the chart title, legend, and Y-axis label.
The default value is "Sans Serif".
This setting does not affect the rest of the user interface, where
the value is inherited from the environment in which
.B pmchart
operates, and differs according to the look-and-feel of each
platform.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR \fIpoint\fR, \fB\-\-font-size\fR=\fIpoint\fR
Specify the default font
.I point
size to be used in several chart components,
such as the chart title, legend, and Y-axis label.
The default is platform dependent, but is either 7, 8 or 9.
This setting does not affect the rest of the user interface.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIgeometry\fR, \fB\-\-geometry\fR=\fIgeometry\fR
Generate image with the specified
.I geometry
(width and height).
This option is only useful when used in conjunction with the
.B \-o
option for generating an output image.
The
.I geometry
argument takes the form "WxH" (e.g. 240x120).
When NOT using the
.B \-o
flag, to specify the display window geometry, use
.B \-geometry
.I geometry
where
.I geometry
specifies the desired window width, height and optional placement.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIhost\fR
Current performance metric values are retrieved from the nominated
.I host
machine by default.
Multiple
.B \-h
options can be presented, and the list of hosts is used for sourcing
metric values.
Any \f2sources\f1 listed on the command line are assumed to be hosts
if this option is used.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIpath\fR, \fB\-\-hostsfile\fR=\fIpath\fR
Specify the
.I path
to a file containing a set of hostnames where
.BR pmcd (1)
is running ,
rather than using the default localhost.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR \fIspec\fR, \fB\-\-spec\-local\fR=\fIspec\fR
When fetching metrics from a local context (see
.BR \-L ),
the
.B \-K
option may be used to control the DSO PMDAs that should be made accessible.
The
.I spec
argument conforms to the syntax described in
.BR pmSpecLocalPMDA (3).
More than one
.B \-K
option may be used.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-local\-PMDA\fR
Use a local context to collect metrics from DSO PMDAs on the local host
without PMCD.
See also
.BR \-K .
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space
.RB ( PMNS (5))
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIoutfile\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIoutfile\fR
Generate an image file named
.IR outfile ,
and then exit.
This is most useful when run with a set of archives and one or more views.
The generated image will be in the format specified as the file
extension (automatically determined from
.IR outfile ).
If no extension can be determined, then the GIF format is used and
the generated file is named with this extension.
The supported image file formats include: bmp, jpeg, jpg, png, ppm,
tif, tiff, xbm, and xpm.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR \fIorigin\fR, \fB\-\-origin\fR=\fIorigin\fR
When reporting archived metrics, start reporting at
.I origin
within the time window (see
.B \-S
and
.BR \-T ).
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR origin .
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR, \fB\-\-guiport\fR=\fIport\fR
.I port
number for connection to an existing
.B pmtime
time control process.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsamples\fR, \fB\-\-samples\fR=\fIsamples\fR
Specifies the number of
.I samples
that will be retained before discarding old data (replaced by
new values at the current time position).
This value can subsequently be modified through the Edit Tab
dialog.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIstarttime\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR=\fIstarttime\fR
When reporting archived metrics, the report will be restricted to those
records logged at or after
.IR starttime .
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR starttime .
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB\-\-interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR
Sets the initial update
.I interval
to something other than the default 1 second.
The
.I interval
argument follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1),
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer (the implied
units in this case are seconds).
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIendtime\fR, \fB\-\-finish\fR=\fIendtime\fR
When reporting archived metrics, the report will be restricted to those
records logged before or at
.IR endtime .
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR endtime .
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fIsamples\fR, \fB\-\-visible\fR=\fIsamples\fR
Sets the initial visible
.I samples
that will be displayed in all charts in the default Tab.
This value must be less than or equal to the total number
of samples retained (the
.B \-s
value).
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display pmchart version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-white\fR
Export images using an opaque(white) background
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-hostzone\fR
Change the reporting timezone to the local timezone at the host
that is the source of the performance metrics, as identified via
either the
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
options.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR \fItimezone\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fItimezone\fR
By default,
.B pmtime
reports the time of day according to the local timezone on the system
where
.B pmchart
is run.
The
.B \-Z
option changes the timezone to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable TZ as described in
.BR environ (7).
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH VIEWS
The primary
.B pmchart
configuration file is the "view", which allows the metadata
associated with one or more charts to be saved in the filesystem.
This metadata describes all aspects of the charts, including
which PCP metrics and instances are to be used, which hosts, which
colors, the chart titles, use of chart legends, and much more.
.PP
From a conceptual point of view, there are two classes of view.
These views share the same configuration file format \- refer
to a later section for a complete description of this format.
The differences lie in where they are installed and how they
are manipulated.
.PP
The first class, the "system" view, is simply any view that is
installed as part of the
.B pmchart
package.
These are stored in
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmchart.
When the
.I "File\(->Open View"
dialog is displayed, it is these views that are initially listed.
The system views cannot be modified by a normal user, and should
not be modified even by a user with suitable privileges, as they
will be overwritten during an upgrade.
.PP
The second class of view is the "user" view.
These views are created on-the-fly using the
.I "File\(->Save View"
dialog.
This is a mechanism for individual users to save their commonly
used views.
Access to these views is achieved through the
.I "File\(->Open View"
dialog, as with the system views.
Once the dialog is opened, the list of views can be toggled between
user and system views by clicking on the two toggle buttons in the
top right corner.
User views are stored in
.I $HOME/.pcp/pmchart.
.SH TABS
.B pmchart
provides the common user interface concept of the Tab, which
is most prevalent in modern web browsers.
Tabs allow
.B pmchart
to update many more charts than the available screen real estate
allows, by providing a user interface mechanism to stack (and
switch between) different vertical sets of charts.
Switching between Tabs is achieved by clicking on the Tab labels,
which are located along the top of the display beneath the Menu
and Tool bars).
.PP
Each Tab has a mode of operation (either live or archive \-
.B pmchart
can support both modes simultaneously), the total number of
samples and currently visible points, and a label describing
the Tab which is displayed at the top of the
.B pmchart
window.
New Tabs can be created using the
.I "File\(->Add Tab"
dialog.
.PP
In order to save on vertical screen real estate, note that the user
interface element for changing between different Tabs (and its label)
are only displayed when more than one Tab exists.
A Tab can be dismissed using the
.I "File\(->Close Tab"
menu, which removes the current Tab and any charts it contained.
.SH IMAGES and PRINTING
A static copy of the currently displayed vertical series of charts
can be captured in two ways.
.PP
When the intended display device is the screen, the
.I "File\(->Export"
menu option should be used.
This allows exporting the charts in a variety of image formats,
including PNG, JPEG, GIF, and BMP.
The image size can be scaled up or down in any dimension.
.PP
Alternatively, when the intended display device is paper, the
.I "File\(->Print"
menu option can be used.
This supports the usual set of printing options (choice of printer,
grayscale/color, landscape/portrait, scaling to different paper sizes,
etc),
and in addition allows printing to the intermediate printer formats
of PostScript and Portable Document Format (PDF).
.SH RECORDING
It is possible to make a recording of a set of displayed charts,
for later playback through
.B pmchart
or any of the other Performance Co-Pilot tools.
The
.I "Record\(->Start"
functionality is simple to configure through the user interface,
and allows fine-tuning of the recording process (including record
frequencies that differ to the
.B pmchart
update interval, alternate file locations, etc).
.PP
.B pmchart
produces recordings that are compatible with the PCP
.BR pmafm (1)
replay mechanism, for later playback via a new instance of
.BR pmchart .
In addition, when recording through
.B pmchart
one can also replay the recording immediately, as on termination
of the recording (through the
.I "Record\(->Stop"
menu item), an archive mode Tab will be created with the captured view.
.PP
Once recording is active in a Live Tab, the Time Control status
button in the bottom left corner of the
.B pmchart
window is displayed with a distinctive red dot.
At any time during a
.B pmchart
recording session, the amount of space used in the filesystem by
that recording can be displayed using the
.I "Record\(->Query"
menu item.
.PP
Finally, the
.I "Record\(->Detach"
menu option provides a mechanism whereby the recording process can
be completely divorced from the running
.B pmchart
process, and allowed to continue on when
.B pmchart
exits.
A dialog displaying the current size and estimated rate of growth for
the recording is presented.
On the other hand, if
.B pmchart
is terminated while recording is in process, then the recording process
will prompt the user to choose immediate cessation of recording or for
it to continue on independently.
.PP
All of the record mode services available from
.B pmchart
are implemented with the assistance of the base Performance Co-Pilot
logging services \- refer to
.BR pmlogger (1)
and
.BR pmafm (1)
for an extensive description of the capabilities of these tools.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE SYNTAX
.de ES
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
..
.de EE
.ft R
.br
.in
.fi
..
.B pmchart
loads predefined chart configurations (or "views") from external
files that conform to the following rules.
In the descriptions below
keywords (shown in \f(CBbold\fP) may appear in upper, lower or
mixed case, elements shown in \f(CR[stuff]\fP are optional, and
user-supplied elements are shown as \f(CR<other stuff>\fP.
A vertical bar (|) is used where syntactic elements are alternatives.
Quotes (")
may be used to enclose lexical elements that may contain white space,
such as titles, labels and instance names.
.IP 1. 0.3i
The first line defines the configuration file type and should be
.ES
\f(CB#kmchart\fP
.EE
although
.B pmchart
provides backwards compatibility for the older
.B pmchart
view formats with an initial line of
.ES
\f(CB#pmchart\fP
.EE
.IP 2. 0.3i
After the first line, lines beginning with "#" as the first
non-white space character are treated as comments and skipped.
Similarly blank lines are skipped.
.IP 3. 0.3i
The next line should be
.ES
\f(CBversion\fP <n> <host-clause>
.EE
where \f(CR<n>\fP depends on the configuration file type, and
is \f(CB1\fP for \f(CBpmchart\fP else \f(CB1.1\fP, \f(CB1.2\fP or
\f(CB2.0\fP for \f(CBpmchart\fP.
.RS
The \f(CR<host-clause>\fP part is optional (and ignored)
for \fBpmchart\fP configuration
files, but required for the \fBpmchart\fP configuration files, and
is of the form
.ES
\f(CBhost\fP \f(CBliteral\fP
.EE
or
.ES
\f(CBhost\fP \f(CBdynamic\fP
.EE
.RE
.IP 4. 0.3i
A configuration contains one or more charts defined as follows:
.ES
\f(CBchart\fP [\f(CBtitle\fP <title>] \f(CBstyle\fP <style> <options>
.EE
If specified, the title will appear centred and above the graph area
of the chart.
The \f(CR<title>\fP is usually enclosed in quotes (") and if it
contains the sequence "%h" this will be replaced by the short form
of the hostname for the default source of metrics at the time
this chart was loaded.
Alternatively, "%H" can be used to insert the full host name.
If the hostname appears to be an inet or IPv6 address,
no shortening will be attempted; it will be used as-is in
both replacement cases.
After the view is loaded, the title visibility and setting
can be manipulated using the
.I "Chart Title"
text box in the
.I "Edit\(->Chart"
dialog.
.RS
.PP
The \f(CR<style>\fP controls the initial plotting style of the chart, and
should be one of the keywords \f(CBplot\fP (line graph), \f(CBbar\fP,
\f(CBstacking\fP (stacked bar),
\f(CBarea\fP or \f(CButilization\fP.
After the view is loaded, the plotting style can be changed using the
.I "Edit\(->Chart"
Style drop-down list.
.PP
The \f(CR<options>\fP are zero or more of the optional elements:
.ES
[\f(CBscale\fP [from] <ymin> [to] <ymax>] [\f(CBlegend\fP <onoff>]
.EE
If \f(CBscale\fP is specified, the vertical scaling is set for all plots
in the chart to a y-range defined by \f(CR<ymin>\fP and \f(CR<ymax>\fP.
Otherwise the
vertical axis will be autoscaled based on the values currently being
plotted.
.PP
\f(CR<onoff>\fP is one of the keywords \f(CBon\fP or \f(CBoff\fP and the
\f(CBlegend\fP clause controls the presence or absence of the plot
legend below the graph area.
The default is for the legend to be shown.
After the view is loaded, the legend visibility
can be toggled using the
.I "Show Legend"
button in the
.I "Edit\(->Chart"
dialog.
.RE
.IP 5. 0.3i
.B pmchart
supports a \f(CBglobal\fP clause to specify the dimensions of the
top-level window (using the \f(CBwidth\fP and \f(CBheight\fP keywords),
the number of visible points (\f(CBpoints\fP keyword) and the starting
X and Y axis positions on the screen (\f(CBxpos\fP and \f(CBypos\fP
keywords).
Each of these \f(CBglobal\fP attributes takes an integer value as the
sole qualifier.
.IP 6. 0.3i
Each \f(CBchart\fP has one or more plots associated with it, as
defined by one of the following specifications:
.ES
\f(CBplot\fP
    [\f(CBlegend\fP <title>] [\f(CBcolor\fP <colorspec>] [\f(CBhost\fP <hostspec>]
    \f(CBmetric\fP <metricname>
    [ \f(CBinstance\fP <inst> | \f(CBmatching\fP <pat> | \f(CBnot-matching\fP <pat> ]
.EE
.RS
.PP
The keyword \f(CBplot\fP may be replaced with the keyword
\f(CBoptional-plot\fP, in which case if the source of performance data
does not include the specified performance metric and/or instance,
then this plot is silently dropped from the chart.
.PP
If specified, the title will appear in the chart legend.
The \f(CR<title>\fP is usually enclosed in quotes (") and it may
contain one or more wildcard characters which will be expanded
using metric name, instance name, and host name for the plot.
The wildcards are "%i" (short unique instance name, up to the first
whitespace), "%I" (full instance name), "%h" (short host name, up
to the first dot), %H (full host name), "%m" (metric name shortened
to the final two PMNS components), and "%M" (full metric name).
.PP
For older
.B pmchart
configuration files, the keyword \f(CBtitle\fP must be used instead of
\f(CBlegend\fP.
Nowadays
.B pmchart
supports either keyword.
.PP
The \f(CBcolor\fP clause is optional for newer
.B pmchart
configuration files, but it was mandatory in the original
.B pmchart
configuration file format.
\f(CR<colorspec>\fP may be one of the following:
.ES
\f(CB#\-cycle\fP
\f(CBrgbi:\fPrr\f(CB:\fPgg\f(CB:\fPbb
\f(CB#\fPrgb
\f(CB#\fPrrggbb
\f(CB#\fPrrrgggbbb
\f(CB#\fPrrrrggggbbbb
<Xcolor>
.EE
where each of \f(CRr\fP, \f(CRg\fP and \f(CRb\fP are hexadecimal
digits (0-9 and A-F) representing respectively the red, green and
blue color components.
\f(CR<Xcolor>\fP is one of the color names from the X color database,
e.g. \f(CBred\fP or \f(CBsteelblue\fP, see also the output from
.BR showrgb (1).
.PP
The "color" \f(CB#\-cycle\fP specifies that
.B pmchart
should use the next in a pallet of colors that it uses cyclically
for each chart.
This is the default if the \f(CBcolor\fP clause is omitted.
.PP
The \f(CR<hostspec>\fP in the \f(CBhost\fP clause may be a hostname,
an IP address or an asterisk (*); the latter is used to mean the
default source of performance metrics.
For older
.B pmchart
configuration files, the \f(CBhost\fP clause must be present, for new
.B pmchart
configuration files it is optional, and if missing the default source
of performance metrics will be used.
.PP
The optional instance specification,
.IP (a) 0.3i
is omitted in which case one plot will be created for every instance of
the \f(CR<metricname>\fP metric
.IP (b) 0.3i
starts with \f(CBinstance\fP, in which case only the instance
named \f(CR<inst>\fP will be plotted
.IP (c) 0.3i
starts with \f(CBmatching\fP, in which case all instances whose
names match the pattern \f(CR<pat>\fP will be plotted; the pattern
uses extended regular expression notation in the style of
.BR egrep (1)
(refer to the PMCD view for an example)
.IP (d) 0.3i
starts with \f(CBnot-matching\fP, in which case all instances whose
names
.B do " " not
match the pattern \f(CR<pat>\fP will be plotted; the pattern
uses extended regular expression notation in the style of
.BR egrep (1)
(refer to the Netbytes view for an example)
.PP
.B pmchart
uses a bizarre syntactic notation where \f(CR<inst>\fP and
\f(CR<pat>\fP extend from the first non-white space character to the
end of the input line.
For
.B pmchart
configuration files these elements are either delimited by white
space, or enclosed in quotes (").
.RE
.IP 7. 0.3i
The optional \f(CBtab\fP directive can be used to create views with
multiple charts which span multiple Tabs.
The syntax is as follows:
.ES
\f(CBtab\fP <label> [\f(CBhost\fP <host>] [\f(CBpoints\fP <points> [\f(CBsamples\fP <samples>]]
.EE
.RS
.ES
.PP
All chart specifications following this keyword will be created
on the new Tab, until the end of the configuration file or until
another \f(CBtab\fP keyword is encountered.
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.PP
Of particular note, the
.B $PCP_XCONFIRM_PROG
setting is explicitly and unconditionally overridden by
.BR pmchart .
This is set to the
.BR pmconfirm (1),
utility, in order that some popup dialogs (particularly in the
area of Recording) maintain a consistent look-and-feel with the
rest of the
.B pmchart
application.
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmchart
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl2	view parsing and loading
_
appl3	lexical scanner from view parsing
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmafm (1),
.BR pmconfirm (1),
.BR pmdumptext (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmrep (1),
.BR pmtime (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ BMP Netbytes PNG PostScript Serif WxH Xcolor autoscaled bmp
.\" +ok+ rrggbb rrrgggbbb rrrrggggbbbb rr gg bb {from <colorspec>}
.\" +ok+ colorspec hostspec
.\" +ok+ inet jpeg jpg kmchart metricname onoff png ppm rgb rgbi
.\" +ok+ showrgb steelblue tif xbm xpm
.\" +ok+ xpos ymax ymin ypos
