'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016,2019 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMCLIENT 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmclient\f1,
\f3pmclient_fg\f1 \- a simple performance metrics client
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmclient\f1
[\f3\-PVz?\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-A\f1 \f2align\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2origin\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2samples\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
.sp
\f3pmclient_fg\f1
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmclient
and
.B pmclient_fg
are simple clients that use the Performance Metrics Application
Programming Interface (PMAPI) to report some high-level system
performance metrics.
.PP
The real value of these tools
is as sample clients using the
.BR PMAPI (3),
interfaces and to this end the source
code is included with
the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) package (see
.BR PCPIntro (1)),
and is typically installed in
.IR /usr/share/pcp/demos/pmclient .
.PP
The
.B pmclient_fg
program
differs to
.B pmclient
in that it uses the fetchgroup API extension to the PMAPI,
see
.BR pmFetchGroup (3).
.PP
Normally
.B pmclient
operates on the distributed Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS),
however if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative local PMNS is loaded from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.PP
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option, or to an archive by the
.B \-a
option,
.B pmclient
will contact the Performance Metrics Collector Daemon (PMCD)
on the local host to obtain the required information.
The argument to
.B \-a
is a comma-separated list of names, each
of which may be the base name of an archive or the name of a directory containing
one or more archives.
The
.B \-a
and
.B \-h
options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
By default,
.B pmclient
reports the time of day according to the local timezone on the
system where
.B pmclient
is run.
The
.B \-Z
option changes the timezone to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
The
.B \-z
option changes the timezone to the local timezone at the host that
is the source of the performance metrics, as identified via either the
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
options.
.PP
The output from
.B pmclient
is directed to standard output, and lists
.IP + 3
Aggregate CPU utilization, in the range 0 to 1.
.IP +
If the system has more than 1 CPU, the ordinal
number of the busiest CPU, in the range 0 to ...
.IP +
If the system has more than 1 CPU, the CPU utilization for the busiest CPU.
.IP +
Real free memory in Mbytes.
.IP +
Aggregate physical disk I/O operations per second (IOPS).
.IP +
Load average over the last 1 minute and over the last 15 minutes.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR \fIarchive\fR, \fB\-\-archive\fR=\fIarchive\fR
Performance metric values are retrieved from the set of Performance
Co-Pilot (PCP) archive files identified by the
.I archive
argument, which is a comma-separated list of names,
each of which may be the base name of an archive or the name of
a directory containing one or more archives.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR \fIalign\fR, \fB\-\-align\fR=\fIalign\fR
Force the initial sample to be
aligned on the boundary of a natural time unit
.IR align .
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR align .
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIhost\fR
Fetch performance metrics from
.BR pmcd (1)
on
.IR host ,
rather than from the default localhost.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space
.RB ( PMNS (5))
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-O\fR \fIorigin\fR, \fB\-\-origin\fR=\fIorigin\fR
When reporting archived metrics, start reporting at
.I origin
within the time window (see
.B \-S
and
.BR \-T ).
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR origin .
.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-pause\fP
The default behavior for replaying a set of archives, is to replay at
full speed.
The
.B \-P
option may be used in conjunction with a set of archives, to request that
the prevailing real-time delay be applied between samples (see
.BR \-t )
to effect a pause.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsamples\fR, \fB\-\-samples\fR=\fIsamples\fR
The
.I samples
argument defines the number of samples to be retrieved and reported.
If
.I samples
is 0 or
.B \-s
is not specified,
.B pmclient
will sample and report continuously (in real time mode) or until the end
of the set of PCP archives (in archive mode).
.TP
.B \-S\fR \fIstarttime\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR=\fIstarttime\fP
The
.B \-S
option may be used in conjunction with a set of archives to request that
display start at the
.I starttime
from the start of the archive(s).
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR starttime .
.TP
.B \-t\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB\-\-interval\fR=\fIinterval\fP
Set the reporting
.I interval\f1
to something other than the default 5 seconds.
The
.I interval
argument follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1),
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer (the implied
units in this case are seconds).
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIendtime\fR, \fB\-\-finish\fR=\fIendtime\fR
When reporting archived metrics, the report will be restricted to those
records logged before or at
.IR endtime .
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR endtime .
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-hostzone\fR
Use the local timezone of the host that is the source of the
performance metrics, as identified by either the
.B \-h
or the
.B \-a
options.
The default is to use the timezone of the local host.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR \fItimezone\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fItimezone\fR
Use
.I timezone
for the date and time.
.I Timezone
is in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_DEMOS_DIR/pmclient
source code, documentation, configuration files and Makefile
when the PCP development package is installed
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.PP
For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see \fBpmGetOptions\fP(3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmdumptext (1),
.BR pmgenmap (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmrep (1),
.BR pmstat (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmFetchGroup (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
