'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012,2014,2019 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Aconex.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMCONFIG 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmconfig\f1 \- Performance Co-Pilot configuration parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmconfig\f1
[\f3\-alLs?\f1]
[\f2name ...\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmconfig
displays the values for some or all configuration parameters
of the local Performance Co-Pilot toolkit installation.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Reports all configuration parameters in the default format.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
Synonym for the
.B \-a
option, reports the same (default) format.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-library\fR
This option changes the default reporting mode so that the
capabilities of the PCP library are reported, rather than the
PCP environment.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shell\fR
An output format suitable for sourcing in shell scripts
which ensures configuration information is quoted and
preceded by an export statement.
When not reporting the library capabilities, this mode will
produce a statement that does not override an existing setting
in the environment for PCP configuration variables.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.PP
In the default operating mode,
.B pmconfig
is often used in conjunction with the
.B $PCP_DIR
environment variable to setup scripts running under the Windows
operating system, where the filesystem hierarchy differs greatly
to the of Linux/UNIX-based operating systems.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmGetConfig (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines not needed for scripts/man-spell
