'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMCPP 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmcpp\f1 \- simple preprocessor for the Performance Co-Pilot
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmcpp
[\f3\-Prs\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2name\f1[=\f2value\f1] ...]
[\f3\-I\f1 \f2dir\f1 ...]
[\f2infile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmcpp
provides a very simple pre-processor originally designed for manipulating Performance
Metric Name Space (PMNS) files for the
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP), but later generalized to provide conditional
blocks, include file processing, in-line shell command execution
and macro substitution for arbitrary files.
It is most commonly used internally
to process the PMNS file(s) after
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3)
or
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3)
is called and to pre-process the configuration files for
.BR pmlogger (1).
.PP
Input lines are read from
.I infile
(or standard input if
.I infile
is not specified), processed and written to standard output.
.PP
All C-style comments of the form /* ... */ are stripped from the
input stream.
.PP
There are no predefined macros for
.B pmcpp
although macros may be defined on the command line using the
.B \-D
option, where
.I name
and
.I value
must follow the same rules as described below for the
.B #define
directive.
.PP
.B pmcpp
accepts the following directives in the input stream (like
.BR cpp (1)):
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#include "\fIfilename\fB"\fR
.br
or
.br
\fB#include <\fIfilename\fB>\fR
.br
In either case the directory search path for
.I filename
tries
.I filename
first, then the directory for the command line
.I infile
(if any),
followed by any directories named in
.B \-I
command line arguments, and finally the
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns
directory (the latter is for backwards compatibility with
earlier versions of
.B pmcpp
and the implied used from
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3)).
.B #include
directives may be nested, up to a maximum depth of 5.
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#shell "\fIcommand\fB"\fR
.br
or
.br
\fB#shell '\fIcommand\fB'
.br
The shell
.I command
will be executed and the standard output is inserted into the
stream of data to be processed by
.BR pmcpp .
Functionally this is similar to a
.B #include
directive, except input lines are read from a
.I command
rather than a file.
The
.B #shell
directive is most useful for including or excluding
.B #define
or
.B #undef
directives based on run-time logic in the
.IR command .
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#define \fIname value\fR
.br
or
.br
\fB#define \fIname \fB"\fIvalue\fB"\fR
.br
or
.br
\fB#define \fIname \fB'\fIvalue\fB'\fR
.br
Defines a value for the macro
.I name
which must be a valid C-style name, so leading alphabetic or underscore
followed by
zero or more alphanumerics or underscores.
.I value
is optional (and defaults to an empty string).
There is no character escape mechanism, but either single quotes or
double quotes may be used to define a
.I value
with special characters or embedded horizontal white space (no newlines).
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#undef \fIname\fR
.br
Removes the macro definition, if any, for
.IR name .
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#ifdef \fIname\fR
.br
\&...
.br
\fB#endif\fR
.br
or
.br
\fB#ifndef \fIname\fR
.br
\&...
.br
\fB#endif\fR
.br
The enclosing lines will be stripped or included, depending if the
macro
.I name
is defined or not.
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#else\fR
.br
Within a
.B #ifdef
or
.B #ifndef
block,
.B #else
may be used to delimit lines to be included if the preceding ``if'' condition
is false.
.PP
Macro substitution is achieved by breaking the input stream into words
separated by white space or characters that are not valid in a macro
name, i.e. not alphanumeric and not underscore.
Each word is checked and if it matches a macro name, the word is
replaced by the macro value, otherwise the word is unchanged.
.PP
There is generally one output line for each input line, although the line
may be empty if the text has been stripped due to the handling of
comments or conditional directives.  When there is a change in the input
stream, an additional output line is generated of the form:
.PP
.ti +10n
# lineno "filename"
.PP
to indicate the 
.I following
line of output corresponds to line number
.I lineno
of the input file
.IR filename .
.PP
The
.B \-P
argument suppresses the generation of these linemarker lines.
.PP
The
.B \-s
argument changes the expected input style from C-like to shell-like
(where # is a comment prefix).  This forces the following changes
in
.B pmcpp
behaviour:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu 3n
The control prefix character changes from
.B #
to
.BR % ,
so 
.B %include
for example.
.IP \(bu 3n
No comment stripping is performed.
.PD
.PP
To provide finer control of macro expansion, the
.B \-r
option restricts macro substitution to words that match the patterns
.BR # name
or
.BR #{ name }
or if
.B \-s
is specified, then
.BR % name
or
.BR %{ name } .
In this mode, the macro
.I name
alone in the input stream will never be expanded, however in control
lines (like
.BR #ifdef )
the macro
.I name
should appear alone with out the prefix character or the
curly braces (refer to the EXAMPLES below).
.PP
Important
.BR cpp (1)
features that are
.B not
supported by
.B pmcpp
include:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu 3n
Macros with parameters \- the
.B pmcpp
macros support only parameterless string substitution.
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB#if \fIexpr\fR
.br
\&...
.br
\fB#endif\fR
.IP \(bu 3n
Nested use of
.B #ifdef
or
.BR #ifndef .
.IP \(bu 3n
Stripping C++ style comments, as in // comment.
.IP \(bu 3n
Error recovery - the first error encountered by
.B pmcpp
will be fatal.
.IP \(bu 3n
.BR cpp (1)
command line options like
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-W ,
.BR \-U ,
and
.BR \-x .
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" man.1.in from src dir
.TS
box;
lR s
lB | lB
lf(CW) | lf(CW).
Command: \fBpmcpp\fP
_
Input	Output
_
	# 1 "<stdin>"
#define MYDOMAIN 27	
	
root {	root {
    foo   MYDOMAIN:0:0	   foo   27:0:0
}	}
.TE
.PP
For the following examples, the file
.I frequencies
contains the lines:
.nf
.ft CW
.in +8n
%define dk_freq 1minute
%define cpu_freq '15 sec'
.in
.ft
.fi
.PP
.\" man.2.in from src dir
.TS
box;
lR s
lB | lB
lf(CW) | lf(CW).
Command: \fBpmcpp -rs\fP
_
Input	Output
_
# get logging frequencies	# get logging frequencies
# e.g. dk_freq macro	# e.g. dk_freq macro
%include "frequencies"

log mandatory on %dk_freq {	log mandatory on 1minute {
    disk.dev	   disk.dev
}	}

# note no % for want_cpu here	# note no % for want_cpu here
%ifdef want_cpu
%define cpu_pfx 'kernel.all.cpu.'
log mandatory on %cpu_freq {
    %{cpu_pfx}user
    %{cpu_pfx}sys
}
%endif
.TE
.PP
.TS
box;
lR s
lB | lB
lf(CW) | lf(CW).
Command: \fBpmcpp -rs -Dwant_cpu\fP
_
Input	Output
_
# get logging frequencies	# get logging frequencies
# e.g. dk_freq macro	# e.g. dk_freq macro
%include "frequencies"

log mandatory on %dk_freq {	log mandatory on 1minute {
    disk.dev	   disk.dev
}	}

# note no % for want_cpu here	# note no % for want_cpu here
%ifdef want_cpu
%define cpu_pfx 'kernel.all.cpu.'
log mandatory on %cpu_freq {	log mandatory on 15 sec {
    %{cpu_pfx}user	   kernel.all.cpu.user
    %{cpu_pfx}sys	   kernel.all.cpu.sys
}	}
%endif
.TE
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpp (1),
.BR pmLoadASCIINameSpace (3),
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
.BR pmns (5),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
