'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Aconex.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMDAJSTAT 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMDAJSTAT 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMDAJSTAT 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMDAJSTAT 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMDAJSTAT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmdajstat\f1 \- Java Virtual Machine performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/jstat/pmdajstat\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-r\f1 \f2refresh\f1]
[\f3\-J\f1 \f2path\f1]
[\f3\-P\f1 \f2path\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdajstat
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which extracts
performance metrics from one or more Java Virtual Machines (JVM).
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdajstat
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I jstat.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdajstat
is started, i.e.
.IR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP 5
.B \-r
.B pmdajstat
will refresh the current values for all performance metrics by
running jstat for each JVM once every
.I refresh
seconds.
The default
.I refresh
is 5 seconds.
.TP 5
.B \-J
The $JAVA_HOME
.I path
where the Java runtime environment can be found.
.TP 5
.B \-P
The
.I path
to the 
.BR jps (1)
and
.BR jstat (1)
binaries.
This would usually be
.IR $JAVA_HOME/bin .
.SH JVM IDENTIFICATION
Multiple Java Virtual Machines can be monitored at once.
The process identifier for each separate process to monitor
is obtained at runtime within
.B pmdajstat
via the
.BR jps (1)
command, which is part of the regular JDK installation.
To discover the valid JVM processes on a particular host,
and also to verify that the PMDA will be able to find the
processes you're interested in, examine the output of the
.B jps
command.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the jstat
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/jstat
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/jstat
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdajstat
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdajstat
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/jstat/help
default help text file for the jstat metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/jstat/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdajstat
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/jstat/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdajstat
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/jstat.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdajstat
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jps (1),
.BR jstat (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
