'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Ken McDonell.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDAOVERHEAD 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaoverhead\f1 \- performance metrics domain agent (PMDA) exporting resource consumption metrics for groups of processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/overhead/pmdaoverhead\f1
[\f3\-C\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2config\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-R\f1 \f2interval\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaoverhead
is a configurable Performance Metrics Domain
Agent (PMDA) for exporting resource consupmtion for groups of related
processes.
.PP
The
.B pmdaoverhead
command line options are:
.TP 4
.B \-C
parse the configuration file(s) and exit after reporting any errors.
.TP
.B \-c
configuration file(s),
.I config
may be either a file or a directory; in the latter case all
the files within
.I config
are assumed to be configuration files for
.B pmdaoverhead
and they will all be processed.
.RS 4
.PP
Each configuration file defines one or more ``groups'' of processes
of interest, using the syntax described
in the ``CONFIGURATION'' section below.
.PP
By default all configuration files below the
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/overhead/conf.d/
directory are used.
.RE
.TP
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I overhead.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdaoverhead
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-R
The PMDA uses a separate thread to periodically scan all processes to
determine which processes are deemed ``interesting'' in each group,
and extracting resorce consumption for those processes.
The
.I interval
(in seconds) determines how often this scanning and resource calculation
is done, the default is 60 (seconds).
.SH CONFIGURATION
Each configuration file defines one or more ``groups'' of processes.
The file format is simple and follows the following rules.
.TP 4
1.
Lines beginning with a hash ``#'' are treated as comments.
More generally, except for the
.B pattern:
clause described below, all text between a hash and the end of line
is treated as a comment.
.TP
2.
White space (spaces or tabs or newlines) are required to separate lexical
components.  Spaces and tabs are otherwise ignored.
Other than terminating comments and the
.I regex
in a
.B pattern:
clause, newlines are also ignored.
.TP
3.
Each group is introduced by a
.B group
clause that has the form
.br
.ti +8n
\fBgroup\fR \fIname\fR \fB{\fR \fIparameters\fR \fB}\fR
.br
where
.I name
is a unique name for the group across all groups in the
.B pmdaoverhead
configuration files.
As
.I name
becomes embedded in the Perfomrance Metrics Name Space (PMNS)
if must follow the rules for metric name components as
described in
.BR PMNS (5),
namely beginning with an alphabetic character, followed by zero or
more characters drawn from the alphabetics, numerics and the
underscore ``_'' character.
.TP
4.
The
.I parameters
must include one
.B id:
clause and one
.B pattern:
clause.
.TP
5.
An
.B id:
clause has the form
.br
.ti +8n
\fBid:\fR \fIident\fR
.br
where
.I ident
is a unique identifier number for the group accross all groups in the
.B pmdaoverhead
configuration files.
Valid values for
.I ident
are in the range 0 to 4094 (inclusive).
.TP
6.
A
.B pattern:
clause has the form
.br
.ti +8n
\fBpattern:\fR \fIregex\fR
.br
where
.I regex
is an extended regular expression notation in the style of
.BR egrep (1).
The
.I regex
starts at the first non-whitespace chacter after
.B pattern:
and extends to the next newline.
.RS 4
.PP
The processes that are considered to be members of the group
are those for which the command name, as reported by
.br
.ti +8n
.ft CW
$ pminfo -f proc.psinfo.cmd
.br
.ft
is matched by
.I regex
.B plus
all the descendents of those processes.
So for example the
.I regex
.B ^pmcd$
will match
.BR pmcd (1)
and all the PMDA processes launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and any of their children, etc.
.RE
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the overhead
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/overhead
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/overhead
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdaoverhead
is launched by
.B pmcd
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.B pmcd
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdaoverhead
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/overhead/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdaoverhead
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/overhead/Remove
undo installation script for the
.B pmdaoverhead
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/overhead.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdaoverhead
.TP 10
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/overhead/conf.d
directory containing configuration files for the overhead metrics
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmdaproc (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
