'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDAMAILQ 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdamailq\f1 \- mail queue performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/mailq/pmdamailq\f1
[\f3\-b\f1 \f2binlist\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-r\f1 \f2regex\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f2queuedir\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdamailq
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which extracts
performance metrics describing the state of the e-mail queues
managed by
.BR sendmail (1)
and other mail transfer agents.
.PP
The
.B mailq
PMDA exports metrics that measure the total number of entries
in the mail queue, and the subtotals for entries that have
been queued for various time periods.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdamailq
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-b
The
.I binlist
argument specifies a list of delay thresholds used to ``bin'' the
entries in the queue into a a histogram based on how long
the entry has been in the mail queue.
The default thresholds are:
1 hour, 4 hours, 8 hours, 1 day, 3 days and 7 days.
The entries in
.I binlist
are comma separated time intervals, using the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for an update or reporting interval, e.g. the default list could be
specified using the value
.BR "1hr,4hrs,8hrs,1day,3days,7days" .
.RS
.PP
Values in
.I binlist
are assumed to be in ascending order, and mail items in the queue less
than the first threshold are binned into a special bin labeled ``recent''.
.RE
.TP
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I mailq.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdamailq
is started, i.e.
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-r
Use an extended regular expression to match file names in the mail queue
directory, rather than assuming all "df" prefixed files in the directory
are mail files (the "df" prefix is the
.B sendmail
convention, but this convention is not followed by other mail daemons).
The
.I regex
pattern specified should conform to the POSIX format described in
.BR regex (3),
and it describes file names that should be considered mail.
.TP 5
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.PP
The optional
.I queuedir
argument defines the directory in which
.B pmdamailq
expects to find the mail queue.
The default is
.BR /var/spool/mqueue .
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the mailq
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/mailq
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/mailq
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdamailq
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdamailq
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/mailq/help
default help text file for the mailq metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/mailq/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdamailq
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/mailq/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdamailq
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/mailq.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdamailq
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
