'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDATXMON 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdatxmon\f1,
\f3txrecord\f1,
\f3genload\f1 \- txmon performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/pmdatxmon\f1
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
\f2tx_type\f1 ...
.br
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/txrecord\f1
[\f3\-l\f1]
.br
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/txrecord\f1
\f2tx_type servtime\f1 [\f2tx_type servtime\f1 ... ]
.br
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/genload\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdatxmon
is an example Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which exports
a small number of performance metrics from a simulated transaction
monitor.
.PP
The txmon PMDA is
shipped as both binary and source code and is designed to be
an aid for PMDA developers;
the txmon PMDA demonstrates how performance
data can be exported from an application (in this case
.BR txrecord )
to the PCP infrastructure via a shared memory segment.
As a matter of convenience,
.B pmdatxmon
creates (and destroys on exit) the shared memory segment.
.PP
The
.I tx_type
arguments are arbitrary unique tags used to identify different
transaction types.
.PP
The
.B txrecord
application simulates the processing of one or more transactions identified
by
.I tx_type
and with an observed service time of
.I servtime .
.PP
With the
.B \-l
option,
.B txrecord
displays the current summary of the transaction activity from
the shared memory segment.
.PP
.B genload
is a shell and
.BR awk (1)
script that acts as a front-end to
.B txrecord
to generate a constant load of simulated transaction activity.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdatxmon
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I txmon.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdatxmon
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP 5
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the txmon
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
You will be prompted for the
.I tx_type
tags.
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdatxmon
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdatxmon
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/help
default help text file for the txmon metrics
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdatxmon
agent
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/txmon/Remove
undo installation script for the
.B pmdatxmon
agent
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/txmon.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdatxmon
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmdatxmon
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl0	shared memory operations
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmdasample (1),
.BR pmdatrivial (1),
.BR txmonvis (1)
and
.BR PMDA (3).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ genload servtime txmon txmonvis txrecord
