'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PMDASUMMARY 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdasummary\f1 \- summary performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary/pmdasummary\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2helpfile\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
\f2pmie-command-line\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdasummary
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which derives
performance metrics values from values made available by other PMDAs.
.B pmdasummary
consists of two processes:
.TP
.B pmie process
The inference engine for performance values
.BR pmie (1)
is used to periodically sample values for the base metrics and compute
the derived values.
This process is launched with the given \f2pmie-command-line\f1 arguments
by the main process, described below.
.TP
.B main process
The main process reads and buffers the values computed by
.BR pmie (1)
and makes them available to the performance metrics collector daemon
.BR pmcd (1).
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdasummary
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP 5
.B \-h
This option specifies an alternative help text file
.I helpfile
for describing the metrics that
.B pmdasummary
represents.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I summary.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdasummary
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP 5
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the summary
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdasummary
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdasummary
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary/expr.pmie
default
.BR pmie (1)
expressions defining the summary metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary/help
default help text for the summary metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdasummary
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/summary/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdasummary
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/summary.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdasummary
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1)
and
.BR pmie (1).
