'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDALOGGER 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdalogger\f1 \- log file performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger/pmdalogger\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2memory\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f2configfile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdalogger
is a configurable log file monitoring Performance Metrics Domain
Agent (PMDA).
It can be seen as analogous to the
.B \-f
option to
.BR tail (1)
and converts each new log line into a performance event.
It was the first PMDA to make extensive use of event metrics, which
can be consumed by client tools like
.BR pmevent (1).
.PP
The
.B logger
PMDA exports both event-style metrics reflecting timestamped event records
for text logged to a file (or set of files or output from a process),
as well as the more orthodox sample-style metrics such as event counts
and throughput size values.
.PP
The PMDA is configured via a
.I configfile
which contains one line for each source of events (file or process).
This file is setup by the Install script described in the later
section on ``INSTALLATION'' of the PMDA.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdalogger
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I logger.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdalogger
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-m
Limit the physical memory used by the PMDA to buffer event records to
.I maxsize
bytes.
As log events arrive at the PMDA, they must be buffered until individual
client tools request the next batch since their previous batch of events.
The default maximum is 2 megabytes.
.TP
.B \-s
Sets the polling interval for detecting newly arrived log lines.
Mirrors the same option from the
.BR tail (1)
command.
.TP
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the logger
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
This is an interactive installation process which prompts for each
log file path to be monitored (or command to be run), a metric
instance name to identify it, and whether access should be restricted
(refer to the
.B \-x
option to
.BR pmevent (1)
for further details).
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdalogger
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdalogger
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger/logger.conf
default configuration file for the logger metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger/help
default help text file for the logger metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdalogger
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/logger/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdalogger
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/logger.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdalogger
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmevent (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR tail (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
