'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDAAPACHE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaapache\f1 \- Apache2 web server performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/apache/pmdaapache\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2server\f1]
[\f3\-P\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-L\f1 \f2location\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaapache
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which extracts
performance metrics describing the state of an Apache web server.
.PP
The
.B apache
PMDA exports metrics that measure the request rate, cumulative
request sizes, uptime and various connection states for active
clients.
.PP
This information is obtained by performing a HTTP request to the
server status URL, which must be enabled in the
.I httpd.conf
configuration file.
.P
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
ExtendedStatus on
<Location /server-status>
SetHandler server-status
Order deny,allow
Deny from all
Allow from localhost
</Location> 
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdaapache
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I apache.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdaapache
is started, i.e.
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-S
Query the Apache status information from the named
.I server
rather than the local host.
.TP
.B \-P
Query the Apache status information from the given
.I port
rather than the default (80).
.TP
.B \-L
Specify an alternative
.I location
for finding the server-status page.
.TP
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the apache
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/apache
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/apache
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdaapache
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdaapache
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/apache/help
default help text file for the apache metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/apache/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdaapache
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/apache/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdaapache
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/apache.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdaapache
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR httpd (8),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
