'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDAAMDGPU 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaamdgpu\f1 \- AMD GPU metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/amdgpu/pmdaamdgpu\f1
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaamdgpu
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which extracts
performance metrics describing the metrics available on AMD
GPU cards via the DRM library.
.PP
The
.B amdgpu
PMDA exports metrics that measure GPU activity, memory utilization,
temperature, etc on GCN 1.2+ AMD GPUs.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdaamdgpu
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I amdgpu.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdaamdgpu
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-t
Enables and sets a sampling
.I interval
for automatic refreshing of metric values.
The functionality is disabled by default, however this option allows
a time interval to be specified on which all values are sampled \- this
has the effect of constantly updating the accumulating metrics, with the
goal of assisting client tools such as
.BR pcp-atop (1)
and
.BR pmlogger (1)
to observe sub-sample time changes in GPU and process state.
Typically these tools have longer sampling intervals, and can thus 'miss'
activity happening during their sampling interval.
.SH INSTALLATION
The
.B amdgpu
PMDA is not installed and available by default.
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/amdgpu
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to establish access to the names, help text and values for the AMD GPU
performance metrics once more, after removal, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/amdgpu
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdaamdgpu
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdaamdgpu
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/amdgpu/help
default help text file for the amdgpu metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/amdgpu/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdaamdgpu
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/amdgpu/Remove
undo installation script for the
.B pmdaamdgpu
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/amdgpu.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdaamdgpu
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to configure the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmdaamdgpu
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl0	interaction with \fBpmcd\fP(1)
_
appl2	trace \fBselect\fP(2) calls
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pcp-atop (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ DRM GPU amdgpu GCN
