'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.\" $Id: pmdasendmail.1,v 1.10 2002/11/12 23:30:09 kenmcd Exp $
.\" I am variants ...
.ds ia sendmail
.ds IA SENDMAIL
.ds Ia Sendmail
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMDASENDMAIL 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMDA\*(IA 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMDA\*(IA 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMDA\*(IA 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMDA\*(IA "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
.nolinks
\f3pmda\*(ia\f1 \- \*(ia performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/pmda\*(ia\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmda\*(ia
is a \*(ia Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which exports
mail traffic statistics as collected by
.BR sendmail (1).
.PP
Before the \*(ia PMDA can export any metrics,
.BR sendmail (1)
must have statistics collection enabled.  This involves checking the
name of the statistics file, as given by the
.B OS
or
.B "O StatusFile"
control lines in
.BR /etc/sendmail.cf ,
and then creating this file if it does not already exist.
Removing the file will terminate statistics collection by
.BR sendmail (1)
and hence the \*(ia PMDA.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmda\*(ia
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I \*(ia.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmda\*(ia
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.PP
There are no communication options, as the
.I Install
script ensures the \*(ia PMDA will be connected to
PMCD by a pipe.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the \*(ia
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmda\*(ia
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmda\*(ia
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/help
default help text file for the \*(ia metrics
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/Install
installation script for the
.B pmda\*(ia
agent
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmda\*(ia
agent
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/\*(ia.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmda\*(ia
.TP
.B /etc/sendmail.cf
.B sendmail
configuration file to identify the name of the statistics file
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1)
and
.BR sendmail (1).
