'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.\" I am variants ...
.ds ia simple
.ds IA SIMPLE
.ds Ia Simple
.TH PMDASIMPLE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdasimple\f1 \- \*(ia performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/pmda\*(ia\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-i\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1]
[\f3\-u\f1 \f2socket\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmda\*(ia
is a \*(ia Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which exports
a small number of synthetic performance metrics.
.PP
The \*(ia PMDA is
shipped as source code and is designed to be an aid for PMDA developers.
In terms of code size and features, it is more complex than the
trivial PMDA, about the same as the txmon PMDA
and less complex than the sample PMDA.
The source for the \*(ia PMDA is a good template from which production,
customized PMDAs can be developed.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmda\*(ia
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-i
Expect PMCD to connect to
.B pmda\*(ia
on the specified TCP/IP port.
.I port
may be a port number or port name.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I \*(ia.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmda\*(ia
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-p
Expect PMCD to create a pipe and the connection to
.B pmda\*(ia
is via standard input and standard output.  This is the
default connection mode.
.TP
.B \-u
Expect PMCD to connect to
.B pmda\*(ia
on the Unix domain socket named
.IR socket .
.TP 5
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.PP
At most one of the options
.BR \-i ,
.B \-p
and
.B \-u
may be specified.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access the names, help text and values for the \*(ia
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmda\*(ia
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmda\*(ia
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/help
default help text file for the \*(ia metrics
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/Install
installation script for the
.B pmda\*(ia
agent
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmda\*(ia
agent
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/simple.conf
configuration file for the dynamic instance domain that
underlies the
.B simple.now
performance metric.  For a description, refer to the
help text file, or run the command
.sp 0.5v
.ft CW
$ pminfo \-T simple.now
.ft P
.sp 0.5v
.TP
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/\*(ia/*.pmda_simple.so
The DSO version of the PMDA.  The same source is used to create both the
DSO and the daemon versions of the \*(ia PMDA, and one or the other
may be installed as part of the dialog in the
.B Install
script.
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/simple.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmda\*(ia
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmdasample (1),
.BR pmdatrivial (1),
.BR pmdatxmon (1),
.BR PMDA (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
