'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDASYSTEMD 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdasystemd\f1 \- systemd performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/systemd/pmdasystemd\f1
[\f3\-f\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2memory\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdasystemd
is a systemd log file monitoring Performance Metrics Domain
Agent (PMDA).
It can be seen as analagous to the
.B \-f
option to
.BR journalctl (1)
and converts each new log line into a performance event,
suitable for consumption by
.BR PMAPI (3)
client tools like
.BR pmevent (1).
.PP
The
.B systemd
PMDA exports both event-style metrics reflecting timestamped event
records for messages logged to the system logs, as well as the more
orthodox sample-style metrics such as message counts and throughput
size values.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdasystemd
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-f
Disables per-uid/gid record filtering.
By default the user and group credentials will be used to
filter log records returned to the client tool, preventing
information exposure to arbitrary users.
This option disables that, so use only with extreme caution.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I systemd.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdasystemd
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-m
Limit the physical memory used by the PMDA to buffer event records to
.I maxsize
bytes.
As log events arrive at the PMDA, they must be buffered until individual
client tools request the next batch since their previous batch of events.
The default maximum is 2 megabytes.
.TP
.B \-s
Sets the polling interval for detecting newly arrived log lines.
Mirrors the same option from the
.BR tail (1)
command.
.TP
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the "adm" user account.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the systemd
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/systemd
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/systemd
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdasystemd
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdasystemd
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/systemd/help
default help text file for the systemd metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/systemd/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdasystemd
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/systemd/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdasystemd
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/systemd.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdasystemd
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmevent (1),
.BR journalctl (1),
.BR tail (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
