'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDATE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdate\f1 \- display an offset date
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmdate
[ \fIoffset\fR ... ]
.I format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdate
displays the current date and/or time, with an optional offset.
.PP
An
.I offset
is specified with a leading sign (``+'' or ``-''), followed by an
integer value, followed by one of the following ``scale'' specifiers;
.IP S
seconds
.PD 0
.IP M
minutes
.IP H
hours
.IP d
days
.IP m
months
.IP y
years
.PD
.PP
The output
.I format
follows the same rules as for
.BR date (1)
and
.BR strftime (3).
.PP
For example, the following will display the date a week ago as DDMMYYYY;
.in +8n
.ft CW
pmdate \-7d %d%m%Y
.ft R
.in -8n
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1),
.BR strftime (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
