'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMDACISCO 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdacisco\f1 \- Cisco router performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco/pmdacisco\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f3\-P\f1 \f2password\f1]
[\f3\-r\f1 \f2refresh\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2prompt\f1]
[\f3\-M\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2port\f1]
\f2host:interface-spec\f1 [...]
.br
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco/parse\f1
[options]
\f2host:interface-spec\f1 [...]
.br
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco/probe\f1
[\f3\-P\f1 \f2password\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2prompt\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2port\f1]
\f2host\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdacisco
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which extracts
performance metrics from one or more Cisco routers.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdacisco
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I cisco.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdacisco
is started, i.e.
.IR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP 5
.B \-P
By default, it is assumed that no user-level password is
required to access the Cisco's telnet port.  If user-level passwords
have been enabled on the Ciscos, then those passwords must
be specified to
.BR pmdacisco .
If specified with the
.B \-P
option,
.I password
will be used as the default user-level password for all
Ciscos.  See also the INTERFACE IDENTIFICATION section below.
.TP 5
.B \-r
.B pmdacisco
will refresh the current values for all performance metrics by
contacting each Cisco router once every
.I refresh
seconds.
The default
.I refresh
is 120 seconds.
.TP 5
.B \-s
The Cisco command prompt ends with the string
.IR prompt .
The default value is ``>''.
The only way
.B pmdacisco
can synchronize the sending of commands and the parsing of output is by
recognizing
.I prompt
as a unique string that comes at the end of all output, i.e. as the
command prompt when waiting for the next command.
.TP 5
.B \-U
By default, it is assumed that no username login is
required to access the Cisco's telnet port.  If username login
has been enabled on the Ciscos, then the corresponding usernames must
be specified to
.BR pmdacisco .
If specified with the
.B \-U
option,
.I username
will be used as the default username login for all
Ciscos.  See also the INTERFACE IDENTIFICATION section below.
.TP 5
.B \-M
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.TP 5
.B \-x
Connect to the Cisco via TCP port number
.I port
rather than the default 23 for a telnet connection.
.PP
For each interface, once the telnet connection
is established,
.B pmdacisco
is willing to wait up to 5 seconds
for the Cisco to provide a new snapshot
of the requested information.  If this does
not happen, the telnet connection is broken and no values are
returned.  This prevents
.B pmdacisco
tying up the Cisco's telnet
ports waiting indefinitely when the response from the
router is not what is expected, e.g. if the format of the ``show int'' output
changes, or the command is in error because an
interface is no longer configured on the router.
.SH INTERFACE IDENTIFICATION
As each Cisco router can support multiple network interfaces
and/or multiple communications protocols, it is necessary to
tell
.B pmdacisco
which interfaces are to be monitored.
.PP
The
.I host:interface-spec
arguments on the command line define a particular interface
on a particular Cisco router.
.I host
should be a hostname or a ``dot-notation'' IP address
that identifies the telnet port of a particular Cisco router.
There are several components of the
.I interface-spec
as follows.
.TP
protocol
One of the abbreviations
.BR a ,
.BR B ,
.BR E ,
.BR e ,
.BR f ,
.BR G ,
.BR h ,
.B s
or
.B Vl
respectively for ATM, BRI (ISDN), FastEthernet, Ethernet, FDDI, GigabitEthernet,
HSSI, serial or Vlan.
.TP
interface
Depending on the model of the Cisco, this will either
be an integer, e.g.\&
.BR s0 ,
or an integer followed by a slash (``/'') followed by a subinterface
identification in one of a variety of syntactic forms, e.g.\&
.BR e1/0 ,
.B G0/0/1
or
.BR s4/2.1 .
.RS
.P
To discover the valid interfaces on a particular Cisco,
connect to the telnet port (using
.BR telnet (1))
and enter the command "show int" and look for the interface
identifiers following the keywords ``Ethernet'', ``Fddi'', ``Serial'', etc.
.P
Alternatively run the
.BR probe
command.
.RE
.TP
username
If there is a username login, and it is different to the
default (see
.B \-U
above), it may be optionally specified here by appending
\&``@'' and the username to the end of
.IR interface-spec .
.TP
password
If there is a user-level password, and it is different to the
default (see
.B \-P
above), it may be optionally specified here by appending
a question mark (``?'') and the password to the end of
.IR interface-spec .
.TP
prompt
If the Cisco command prompt is different to the
default (see
.B \-s
above), it may be optionally specified here by appending
an exclamation mark (``!'') and the prompt to the end of
.IR interface-spec .
.PP
The following are examples of valid
.I interface-spec
arguments.
.in +1i
.nf
my-router:e1/2
123.456.789.0:s0
wancisco:f2/3?trust_me
somecisco:G1/0!myprompt
cisco34.foo.bar.com:e2?way2cool
mycisco:s2/2.1@mylogin
yourcisco:E0/0@yourlogin?yourpassword
mycisco:E0/0@mylogin?mypassword!myprompt
.fi
.in
.SH HELPER UTILITIES
The
.B probe
command may be used to discover the names of all interfaces for
a particular Cisco router identified by
.IR host .
The
.BR \-P
argument is the same as for
.BR pmdacisco .
.PP
The
.B parse
command takes exactly the same arguments as
.BR pmdacisco ,
but executes outside the control of any
.BR pmcd (1)
and so may be used to diagnose problems with handling a particular
Cisco router and/or one of its interfaces.
.PP
Additional diagnostic verbosity may be produced using the
.B "\-D appl0,appl1,appl2"
command line option.
.B appl0
logs connect and disconnect events, login progress, high-level
flow of control and extracted statistics.
.B appl1
traces all commands sent to the Cisco device.
.B appl2
logs tokenizing and parsing of the output from the Cisco device.
Diagnostics are generated on standard error as each sample is fetched
and parsed.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the Cisco
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdacisco
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdacisco
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco/help
default help text file for the Cisco metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdacisco
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/cisco/Remove
undo installation script for the 
.B pmdacisco
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/cisco.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdacisco
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
