'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMDASAMPLE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdasample\f1 \- sample performance metrics domain agent (PMDA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_PMDAS_DIR/pmdasample\f1
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-i\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1]
[\f3\-u\f1 \f2socket\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2username\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdasample
is a sample Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which exports
a variety of synthetic performance metrics.
.PP
This PMDA was developed as part of the quality assurance testing
for the PCP product, but has other uses, most notably in the
development of new PCP clients.
.PP
The metrics exported by the sample PMDA cover the full range of
data types, data semantics, value cardinality, instance domain
stability and error conditions found in real PMDAs.
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdasample
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP
.B \-i
Expect PMCD to connect to
.B pmdasample
on the specified TCP/IP port.
.I port
may be a port number or port name.
.TP
.B \-l
Location of the log file.  By default, a log file named
.I sample.log
is written in the current directory of
.BR pmcd (1)
when
.B pmdasample
is started, i.e.
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd .
If the log file cannot
be created or is not writable, output is written to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-p
Expect PMCD to create a pipe and the connection to
.B pmdasample
is via standard input and standard output.  This is the
default connection mode.
.TP
.B \-u
Expect PMCD to connect to
.B pmdasample
on the Unix domain socket named
.IR socket .
.TP 5
.B \-U
User account under which to run the agent.
The default is the unprivileged "pcp" account in current versions of PCP,
but in older versions the superuser account ("root") was used by default.
.PP
At most one of the options
.BR \-i ,
.B \-p
and
.B \-u
may be specified.
.SH INSTALLATION
If you want access to the names, help text and values for the sample
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/sample
# ./Install
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
Note that the installation script also installs the DSO version of
the sample PMDA, so there are in fact two PMDAs installed, and two
sets of performance metrics, namely
.B sample.*
and
.BR sampledso.* .
.PP
If you want to undo the installation (and remove both PMDAs),
do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/sample
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdasample
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMCDCONF_PATH
command line options used to launch
.B pmdasample
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/sample/help
default help text file for the sample metrics
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/sample/Install
installation script for the
.B pmdasample
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/sample/Remove
undo installation script for the
.B pmdasample
agent
.TP 10
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmcd/sample.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdasample
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmdasample
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lxf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl0	T{
verbose diagnostics for dynamic instance domains and metric mapping
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmdasimple (1),
.BR pmdatrivial (1),
.BR pmdatxmon (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ sampledso
