'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMDUMPTEXT 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmdumptext\f1 \- dump performance metrics to an ASCII table
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmdumptext\f1
[\f3\-CFGHilmMNoruVXz?\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-A\f1 \f2align\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2config\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2delimiter\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-f\f1 \f2format\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2offset\f1]
[\f3\-P\f1 \f2precision\f1]
[\f3\-R\f1 \f2lines\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2sample\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-U\f1 \f2string\f1]
[\f3\-w\f1 \f2width\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
[\f2metric \f1...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdumptext
outputs the values of performance metrics collected live or from a
set of Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archives.
By default, the metric values are displayed in tab separated columns,
prefixed by a timestamp.
.PP
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option, or to one or more sets of archives by the
.B \-a
option,
or an explict host: or archive/ prefix in the
.I metric
(see below for more information),
.B pmdumptext
will contact the Performance Metrics Collector Daemon (PMCD)
on the local host to obtain the required information.
.PP
.B pmdumptext
may be run in interactive mode with the
.B \-i
option which displays the values in equal width columns.
Without this option,
no attempt is made to line up any values allowing the output to be easily
parsed by other applications.
.PP
The format of the output can be further controlled by changing the
precision of the values with
.BR \-P ,
the width of the columns with
.BR \-w ,
and the format of the values with the
.BR \-G
and
.BR \-F
options for the shortest of scientific or fixed digits, and a fixed
width format, respectively.
.PP
By default
.B pmdumptext
will scale metric values to ``canonical'' units of bytes, seconds
and counts.
The one exception is with the
.B \-r
option where the values are not scaled.
The
.B \-u
option reports the units of each metric.
.PP
The
.I metrics
to be dumped can be listed on the command line, in a
.I config
file, or piped to
.B pmdumptext
on
.IR stdin .
A metric consists of an optional source (host or archive), the metric name,
and an optional instance list immediately after the name.
A colon is used to separate a host name from the metric,
and a forward slash (``/'') to separate an archive name from the metric.
Instances are enclosed in square brackets and a comma is used between each
instance if more than one is stated.
For example, some legal metrics are:
.PP
.in 1.5i
.ft CR
.nf
kernel.all.cpu.idle
myhost:kernel.all.cpu.idle[cpu0,cpu3]
/path/to/myarchive/kernel.all.cpu.idle[cpu1]
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
When a
.I metric
does not contain a host: or archive/ prefix, e.g.
\f(CRkernel.all.cpu.idle\fP above, then the source of the metric
is determined by the following rules:
.PD 0
.TP 4n
(a)
PMCD on
.I host
from the
.B \-h
option if any, else
.TP
(b)
the
.I archive
from the first
.B \-a
option if any, else
.TP
(c)
the host from the first
.I metric
prior to this one with a host: prefix if any, else
.TP
(d)
the archive from the first
.I metric
prior to this one with an archive/ prefix if any, else
.TP
(e)
PMCD on the local host, which is equivalent to local::\fImetric\fP.
.PD
.PP
The format of a
.I metric
is further described in
.BR PCPIntro (1)
in the PERFORMANCE METRIC SPECIFICATIONS section.
A normalization value may optionally follow a metric name in a
.I config
file or on
.IR stdin .
The metric value will be scaled by this value.
For example, if the file system ``/dev/root'' has a capacity
of 1965437 bytes, then the percentage of
the file system that is used could be dumped with this
.IR config :
.PP
.in 1.5i
.ft CR
.nf
filesys.used[/dev/root] 19654.37
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
A normalization value may not be used with
.I metrics
specified as command line arguments.
.PP
A metric name is not required to be a leaf node in the Performance Metrics
Name Space (PMNS), except when one or more instances are specified.
For example, to dump all file system metrics, only
.I filesys
is required to dump
.IR filesys.capacity ,
.IR filesys.used ,
.IR filesys.free
etc.
.SH OPTIONS
The command line options
.hy 0
.B \-A
(or
.BR \-\-align ),
.B \-O
(or
.BR \-\-origin ),
.B \-S
(or
.BR \-\-start )
and
.B \-T
(or
.BR \-\-finish )
control the alignment, offset, start and end time when visualizing metrics
from archives.
These options are common to most Performance Co-Pilot tools
and are fully described in
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.br
.hy
.PP
The other available options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR \fIarchive\fR, \fB\-\-archive\fR=\fIarchive\fR
Specifies the historical
.I archive
from which metrics can be obtained for a particular host.
.I archive
is the full path to an individual archive file, or the
name of a directory containing archives,
or the basename of an archive \- all previously created by
.BR pmlogger (1).
Multiple sets of archives (separated by commas or in different \f3\-a\f1 options)
from different hosts may be given, but only one set of archives per host is
permitted.
Any metrics that are not associated with a specific host or archive
will use the first archive as their source.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR=\fIconfig\fR
If no
.I metrics
are listed on the command line, a
.I config
file can be used to specify the
.IR metrics
to be dumped.
Unlike the command line
.IR metrics ,
each metric may be followed by a normalization value.
Empty lines and lines that begin with ``#'' are ignored.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
Exit before dumping any values, but after parsing the metrics.
Metrics, instances, normals and units are listed if
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-N
and/or
.BR \-u
are specified.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIdelimiter\fR, \fB\-\-delimiter\fR=\fIdelimiter\fR
Specify the
.I delimiter
that separates each column of output.
The
.I delimiter
may only be a single character.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIformat\fR, \fB\-\-time\-format\fR=\fIformat\fR
Use the
.I format
string for formatting the timestamp with each set of values.
The syntax of this string is the same as that described in
.BR strftime (3).
An empty
.I format
string (e.g. '') will remove the timestamps from the output.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fixed\fR
Output the values in a fixed width format of 6 characters.
Positive numbers are represented as \f2dd\f1.\f2dd\f3u\f1 and
negative numbers as \f3[\f1-\f3]\f2d\f1.\f2dd\f3u\f1.
The postfix multiplier may have the values
.BR K (10^3),
.BR M (10^6),
.BR G (10^9)
and
.BR T (10^12).
For example, 4567 would be displayed as 4.57K, even if the units of the metric
are bytes.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-scientific\fR
Output the values using the shortest of a scientific format or a decimal
notation.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIhost\fR
Fetch performance metrics from
.BR pmcd (1)
on
.IR host ,
rather than the default localhost.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-headers\fR
Show all headers before dumping any metric values.
This is equivalent to
.BR \-lmNu .
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
Output the data in fixed width columns using fixed width values (see
.BR \-F )
so that it is human-readable.
This option may not be used with
.B \-P
as fixed point values are not fixed width.
This option will also affect the
output of
.BR \-m
and
.BR \-u
options as the metric, instance and unit names will be truncated.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-source\fR
Show the source of the metrics.
In interactive mode, the host of the metrics
is shown.
In non-interactive mode, this option shows the source of
the metrics with the metric name even if
.B \-m
is not specified.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-metrics\fR
Output the metric names before the metric values.
The source and units of
the metrics may also be dumped with the \f3\-l\f1 and \f3\-u\f1 options
respectively.
If in interactive mode, the metrics names may be truncated,
and the instance names, where relevant, are also truncated on the follow
line.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
Output the column number and complete metric names before dumping any values.
If the
.B \-l
flag is also specified, the source of the metrics is also shown.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative local PMNS from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-offset\fR
When a timestamp is being reported (i.e. unless an empty format string is
given with the
.B \-f
option), the timestamp is prefixed with the offset in seconds from
the start of the set of archives or the beginning of the execution of
.BR pmdumptext .
.TP
\fB\-N\fR
Output the normalization factors before the metric values.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIprecision\fR, \fB\-\-precision\fR=\fIprecision\fR
Set the
.I precision
of the values.
This option may not be used with
.B \-F
as the precision is constant.
The default precision is 3.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
Output the raw metric values, do not convert counters to rates and do not scale
values to ``canonical'' units.
This option also causes
.B pmdumptext
to ignore the normalization values for each metric.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR \fIlines\fR, \fB\-\-repeat\fR=\fIlines\fR
Repeat the header every
.I lines
of output.
This option is useful in interactive mode when using a
graphical window to avoid the header scrolling beyond the window's buffer,
and to realign the header if the window is resized.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsamples\fR, \fB\-\-samples\fR=\fIsamples\fR
.B pmdumptext
will terminate after this many samples.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB\-\-interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR
The
.I interval
option follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1),
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer (the implied
units in this case are seconds).
The default interval is 1 second.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-units\fR
Output the units of the metrics before the first values, but after the
metric names if \f3\-m\f1 is also specified.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fIstring\fR, \fB\-\-unavailable\fR=\fIstring\fR
Change the output when values are unavailable to
.IR string .
The default string is ``?''.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR, \fB\-\-widthfR=\fIwidth\fR
Set the column width of the output.
Strings will be truncated to this width,
and maybe postfixed by ``...'' if the
.I width
is greater than 5.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-extended\fR
Output the column number and complete metric names, one-per-line,
both before dumping the first set of values and again each time the
header is repeated.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-hostzone\fR
Use the local timezone of the host that is the source of the
performance metrics, as identified by either the
.B \-h
or the first
.B \-a
options.
The default is to use the timezone of the local host.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR \fItimezone\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fItimezone\fR
Use
.I timezone
for the date and time.
.I Timezone
is in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH MULTIPLE SOURCES
.B pmdumptext
supports the dumping of metrics from multiple hosts or set of archives.
The metrics listed on the command line or in the
.I config
file may have no specific source or come from different sources.
.PP
However, restrictions apply when archives
are specified on the command line
.RB ( \-a )
and/or in the configuration file.
Firstly, there may be only one set of archives for any one host.
Secondly, the hosts of any metrics with host sources must correspond
to the host of a set of archives, either on the command line or
previously as the source of another metric.
.PP
The options
.B \-a
and
.B \-h
may not be used together.
.SH UNIT CONVERSION
All metrics that have the semantics of counters are automatically converted to
rates over the sample time interval.
In interactive mode,
.B pmdumptext
will also change the units of some metrics so that they are easier to
comprehend:
.TP
o
All metrics with space units (bytes to terabytes) are scaled to bytes.
Note that 1024 bytes with be represented as 1.02K, not 1.00K.
.TP
o
Metrics that are counters with time units (nanoseconds to hours) represent time
utilization over the sample interval.
The unit strings of such metrics is changed to ``Time Utilization'' or
abbreviated to ``util'' and the values are normalized to the range zero to one.
.SH EXAMPLES
o To examine the load on two hosts foo and bar, simultaneously:
.PP
.in 0.5i
.ft CR
.nf
$ pmdumptext \-il 'foo:kernel.all.load[1]' 'bar:kernel.all.load[1]'
             Source        foo     bar
Wed Jul 30 11:37:53      0.309   0.409
Wed Jul 30 11:37:54      0.309   0.409
Wed Jul 30 11:37:55      0.309   0.409
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
o To output the memory utilization on a remote host called bong with a simpler timestamp:
.PP
.in 0.5i
.ft CR
.nf
$ pmdumptext \-imu \-h bong \-f '%H:%M:%S' mem.util
  Metric        kernel  fs_ctl  _dirty  _clean    free    user
   Units             b       b       b       b       b       b
09:32:28         8.98M   0.97M   0.00    3.90M   7.13M  46.13M
09:32:29         8.99M   0.98M   0.00    5.71M   5.39M  46.03M
09:32:30         8.99M   1.07M   0.00    5.81M   4.55M  46.69M
09:32:31         9.03M   1.16M   0.00    6.45M   3.48M  47.00M
09:32:32         9.09M   1.18M  20.48K   6.23M   3.29M  47.30M
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
o To dump all metrics collected in an archive at a 30 second interval to a file
for processing by another tool:
.PP
.in 0.5i
.ft CR
.nf
$ pminfo \-a archive | pmdumptext \-t 30s \-m \-a archive > outfile
.fi
.ft R
.in
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/*
default PMNS specification files
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.PP
For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see \fBpmGetOptions\fP(3).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmdumptext
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lxf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl0	T{
.ad l
detailed diagnostics
for metrics, their source and timezone, metadata,
units normalization, output format, etc.
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmrep (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR strftime (3)
and
.BR environ (7).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ Jul _clean _dirty dd explict filesys fs_ctl
.\" +ok+ myarchive myhost outfile
.\" +ok+ il {from -il} imu {from -imu} lmNu {from -lmNu}
