'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMERR 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmerr\f1 \- translate Performance Co-Pilot error codes into error messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmerr\f1
[\f3\-?\f1]
\f2code\f1
\&...
.br
.B pmerr
\f3\-l\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmerr
accepts
standard Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
error codes via the
.I code
argument(s) and generates the corresponding error text.
.PP
Each
.I code
may be an integer, a hexadecimal value or a hexadecimal value prefixed
by either ``0x'' or ``0X''.
.PP
Error codes must be less than zero, so if
.I code
is a positive number, a warning message is produced, and the
negated value is used.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
This alternative invocation causes all known error codes to be
listed, along with their symbolic names and error text.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmErrStr (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines not needed for scripts/man-spell
