'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMHOSTNAME 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmhostname\f1 \- report hostname
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpmhostname\fR
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\fB\-?\fR]
[\fIhostname\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmhostname
reports the name of the host
.I hostname
as returned by
.BR gethostbyname (3).
.PP
If
.I hostname
is not specified, then the local host name
is retrieved using
.BR gethostname (2)
and this is than passed to
.BR gethostbyname (3).
.PP
.B pmhostname
provides a service for shell scripts that
mimics the logic formerly used by Performance Co-Pilot applications
when trying to determine the official name of a host.
PCP applications no longer use DNS-based heuristics, and therefore
this command is
.IR deprecated .
.PP
If
.BR gethostbyname (3)
fails, the input host name (either
.I hostname
or the result from calling
.BR gethostname (2))
is reported.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmhostname
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lxf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl0	T{
.ad l
detailed diagnostics, e.g. result from calling
.BR gethostname (2)
and PMAPI routines
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nslookup (1),
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR resolver (5).
