'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Max Matveev.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMIESTATUS 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmiestatus\f1 \- display information from pmie stats file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmiestatus\f1
\f2statsfile\f1
[...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmiestatus
displays information used to identify a running
.BR pmie (1)
process.
It is mostly used by
.BR pmie_check (1)
and
.BR pmie_daily (1)
when they hunt for instances of \f3pmie\f1
to check against the control file.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_TMP_DIR/pmie/*
pmie stats files
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmie (1),
.BR pmie_check (1),
.BR pmie_daily (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines not needed for scripts/man-spell
