'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMIE2COL 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmie2col\f1 \- convert pmie output to multi-column format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmie2col\f1
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2delimiter\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2precision\f1]
[\f3\-w\f1 \f2width\f1]
.de EX
.in +0.5i
.ie t .ft CB
.el .ft B
.ie t .sp .5v
.el .sp
.ta \\w' 'u*8
.nf
..
.de EE
.fi
.ie t .sp .5v
.el .sp
.ft R
.in
..
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmie2col
is a simple tool that converts output from
.BR pmie (1)
into regular column format.  Each column is 7 characters wide
(by default, may be changed with the
.B \-w
option) with a single space between columns.
That single space can be substituted with an alternate
delimiter using the
.B \-d
option (this is useful for importing the data into a spreadsheet,
for example).
.PP
The precision of the tabulated values from
.B pmie
can be specified with the
.B \-p
option (default is 2 decimal places).
This option can and will override any width setting in order to
present the requested precision.
.PP
The
.BR pmie (1)
configuration must follow these rules:
.IP (1)
Each
.BR pmie (1)
expression is of the form ``NAME = expr;''.
NAME will be used as the column heading, and must contain no white space,
although special characters can be escaped by enclosing NAME in single
quotes.
.IP (2)
The ``expr'' must be a valid
.BR pmie (1)
expression that produces a singular value.
.PP
In addition,
.BR pmie (1)
must be run with the
.B \-v
command line option.
.PP
It is also possible to use the
.B \-e
command line to
.BR pmie (1)
and output lines will be prefixed by a timestamp.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Given this
.BR pmie (1)
configuration file
.IR (config) :
.EX
loadav = kernel.all.load #'1 minute';
\&'%usr' = kernel.all.cpu.user;
\&'%sys' = kernel.all.cpu.sys;
\&'%wio' = kernel.all.cpu.wait.total;
\&'%idle' = kernel.all.cpu.idle;
\&'max-iops' = max_inst(disk.dev.total);
.EE
Then this command pipeline:
.EX
$ pmie \-v \-t 5 <config | pmie2col \-w 8
.EE
Produces output like this:
.EX
   loadav     %usr     %sys     %wio    %idle max-iops
     0.21        ?        ?        ?        ?        ?
     0.36     0.49     0.03     0.18     0.29    25.40
     0.49     0.41     0.10     0.36     0.13    51.00
     0.69     0.49     0.10     0.05     0.37    43.20
     0.71     0.39     0.08     0.04     0.49    14.00
     0.83     0.63     0.15     0.00     0.21    32.30
     1.09     0.60     0.02     0.10     0.27    47.00
     0.92     0.01     0.00     0.00     0.99     2.40
.EE
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1)
and
.BR pmie (1).
