'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2016,2019 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMIE_CHECK 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmie_check\f1,
\f3pmie_daily\f1 \- administration of the Performance Co-Pilot inference engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmie_check
[\f3\-CNPpsTV?\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
.br
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmie_daily
[\f3\-NV?\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
[\f3\-k\f1 \f2discard\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2addresses\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2compress\f1]
[\f3\-X\f1 \f2program\f1]
[\f3\-Y\f1 \f2regex\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This series of shell scripts and associated control files may be used to
create a customized regime of administration and management for the
Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPIntro (1))
inference engine,
.BR pmie (1).
.PP
.B pmie_check
may be run at any time of the day and verifies that a desired set of
.BR pmie
processes is running.
If not, it (re-)starts any missing inference engine processes.
.PP
.B pmie_daily
is intended to be run once per day, preferably in the early morning, as
soon after midnight as practicable.
Its task is to rotate the log files for the running
.B pmie
processes \- these files may grow without bound if the
``print'' action is used, or any other
.B pmie
action writes to its stdout/stderr streams.
After some period, old
.B pmie
log files are discarded.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-c\fR \fIcontrol\fR, \fB\-\-control\fR=\fIcontrol\fR
Both
.B pmie_check
and
.B pmie_daily
are controlled by PCP inference engine control file(s) that specify the
.B pmie
instances to be managed.
The default
.I control
file is
.B $PCP_PMIECONTROL_PATH
but an alternate may be specified using the
.BR \-c
option.
If the directory
.BR $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH .d
(or
.IR control .d
from the
.BR \-c
option) exists, then the contents of any additional
.I control
files therein will be appended to the main control file (which must exist).
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
This option causes
.B pmie_check
to query the system service runlevel information for
.BR pmie ,
and use that to determine whether to start processes or not.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIperiod\fR, \fB\-\-discard\fR=\fIperiod\fR
The log retention
.I period
is 14 days by default, but this may be
changed using this option.
Two special values are recognized for the discard
.IR period ,
namely
.B 0
to keep no log files beyond the current one, and
.B forever
to prevent any log files being discarded.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIfile\fR
In order to ensure that mail is not unintentionally sent when these
scripts are run from
.BR cron (8)
diagnostics are always sent to log files.
By default, these files are
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/pmie_daily.log
and
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/pmie_check.log
but this can be changed using the
.B \-l
option.
If this log
.I file
already exists when the script starts, it will be renamed with a
.I .prev
suffix (overwriting any log file saved earlier) before diagnostics
are generated to the new log file.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIaddresses\fR, \fB\-\-mail\fR=\fIaddresses\fR
Use of this option causes
.B pmie_daily
to construct a summary of the log files generated for all monitored hosts
in the last 24 hours (lines matching `` OK '' are culled), and e-mail that
summary to the set of space-separated
.IR addresses .
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-showme\fR
This option enables a ``show me'' mode, where the programs actions are
echoed, but not executed, in the style of ``make \-n''.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR
Use of this option provides the reverse
.B pmie_check
functionality, allowing the set of
.B pmie
processes to be cleanly shutdown.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-skip\-primary\fR
If this option is specified for
.B pmie_check
then any line from the control files for the
.I primary
.B pmie
will be ignored.
This option is intended for environments where some system daemon,
like
.BR systemd (1),
is responsible for controlling (starting, stopping, restarting, etc.) the
.I primary
.BR pmie .
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-only\-primary\fR
If this option is specified for
.B pmie_check
then only the primary pmie entry in the control files will be processed.
This is the logical opposite of the \fB\-p\fP option described above
and is intended for use by RC scripts that start only the primary pmie,
such as the
.B pmie.service
unit.
The \fB\-p\fP and \fB\-P\fP options to \fBpmie_check\fP are mutually exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-terse\fR
This option to
.B pmie_check
produces less verbose output than the default.
This is most suitable for a
.I pmie
\&``farm'' where many instances of
.I pmie
are expected to be running.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
The output from the
.BR cron
execution of the scripts may be extended using the
.B \-V
option to the scripts which will enable verbose tracing of their activity.
By default the scripts generate no output unless some error or warning
condition is encountered.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIperiod\fR, \fB\-\-compress\-after\fR=\fIperiod\fR
Log files can optionally be compressed after some
.I period
to conserve disk space.
This is particularly useful for large numbers of
.B pmie
processes under the control of
.BR pmie_check .
The
.B \-x
option specifies the number of days after which to compress archive data
files.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR \fIprogram\fR, \fB\-\-compressor\fR=\fIprogram\fR
This option specifies the program to use for compression \- by default
this is
.BR xz (1).
.TP
\fB\-Y\fR \fIregex\fR, \fB\-\-regex\fR=\fIregex\fR
This option allows a regular expression to be specified causing files in
the set of files matched for compression to be omitted \- this allows
only the data file to be compressed, and also prevents the program from
attempting to compress it more than once.
The default
.I regex
is "\.(meta|index|Z|gz|bz2|zip|xz|lzma|lzo|lz4)$" \- such files are
filtered using the
.B \-v
option to
.BR egrep (1).
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.BR Warning :
The
.B $PCP_PMIECONTROL_PATH
and
.BR $PCP_PMIECONTROL_PATH .d
files must not be writable by any user other than root.
.PP
The control file(s) should be customized according to the following rules
that define for the current version (1.1)
of the control file format.
.IP 1. 4m
Lines beginning with a ``#'' are comments.
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Lines beginning with a ``$'' are assumed to be
assignments to environment variables in the style of
.BR sh (1),
and all text following the ``$'' will be
.BR eval 'ed
by the script reading the control file,
and the corresponding variable exported into the environment.
This is particularly
useful to set and export variables into the environment of
the administrative script, e.g.
.br
.in +4n
.ft CR
.nf
$ PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 3.
There
.B must
be a version line in the initial control file of the form:
.br
.in +4n
.ft CR
.nf
$ version=1.1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 4.
There should be one line in the control file(s)
for each
.B pmie
instance of the form:

.in +4n
.ft CR
.nf
\f2host\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f2logfile\f1 \f2args\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n

.IP 5.
Fields within a line of the control file(s)
are separated by one or more spaces or tabs.
.IP 6.
The
.I first
field is the name of the host that is the default source of the
performance metrics for this
.B pmie
instance.
.IP 7.
The
.I second
field indicates if this is a
.I primary
.B pmie
instance (\c
.BR y )
or not (\c
.BR n ).
Since the primary inference engine must run on the local host, and there
may be at most one primary for a particular host, this field can be
.B y
for at most one
.B pmie
instance, in which case the host name must be the name of the local host.
When generating
.B pmie
configuration files, the primary clause indicates that
.BR pmieconf (1)
should enable all rules in the primary group, in addition to all other
default rules.
.IP 8.
The
.I third
field indicates whether this
.B pmie
instance needs to be started under the control of
.BR pmsocks (1)
to connect to a
.B pmcd
through a firewall (\c
.B y
or
.BR n ).
.IP 9.
The
.I fourth
field is the name of the
.B pmie
activity log file.
A useful convention is that
.B pmie
instances monitoring the local host
with hostname
.I myhost
are maintained in the directory
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/ myhost\fR,
while activity logs for the remote host
.I mumble
are maintained in
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/ mumble\fR.
This is consistent with the way
.BR pmlogger (1)
maintains its activity logs and archive files.
.IP 10.
All other fields are interpreted as arguments to be passed to
.BR pmie (1).
Most typically this would be the
.B \-c
option.
.PD
.PP
The following sample control lines specify one
.B pmie
instance monitoring the local host (\c
.IR wobbly ),
and another monitoring performance metrics from the host
.IR splat .
.PP
.nf
.ft CR
wobbly  n  PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/wobbly  \-c config.default
splat   n  PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/splat   \-c splat/cpu.conf
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
Typical
.BR crontab (5)
entries for periodic execution of
.B pmie_daily
and
.B pmie_check
are given in
.BR $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmie/crontab
(unless installed by default in
.IR /etc/cron.d
already)
and shown below.
.PP
.nf
.ft CR
# daily processing of pmie logs
08      0       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmie_daily
# every 30 minutes, check pmie instances are running
28,58   *       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmie_check
.ft 1
.fi
When using
.BR systemd (1)
on Linux,
no
.B crontab
entries are needed as the timer mechanism provided by
.B systemd
is used instead.
.PP
The
.BR pmiectl (1)
utility may invoke
.B pmie_check
using the
.BR sudo (1)
command to run it under the $PCP_USER ``pcp'' account.
If
.B sudo
is configured with the non-default
.I requiretty
option (see below),
.B pmie_check
may fail to run due to not having a tty configured.
This issue can be resolved by adding a second line
(expand $PCP_BINADM_DIR according to your platform)
to the
.I /etc/sudoers
configuration file as follows:
.P
.ft CR
.nf
.in +0.5i
Defaults requiretty
Defaults!$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmie_check !requiretty
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.P
Note that the unprivileged PCP account under which these
commands run uses
.I /sbin/nologin
as the shell, so the
.I requiretty
option is ineffective here and safe to disable in this way.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_PMIECONTROL_PATH
the default PCP inference engine control file
.br
.BR Warning :
this file must not be writable by any user other than root.
.TP
.I $PCP_PMIECONTROL_PATH.d
optional directory containing additional PCP inference engine control files,
typically one per host
.br
.BR Warning :
this files herein must not be writable by any user other than root.
.TP
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmie/crontab
sample crontab for automated script execution by $PCP_USER (or root) -
exists only if the platform does not support the
.I /etc/cron.d
mechanism.
.TP
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmie/config.default
default
.B pmie
configuration file location for a localhost inference engine, typically
generated automatically by
.BR pmieconf (1).
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/pmie_check.log
default location for the
.B pmie_check
log file.
When run as a daemon service, if the
.B pmie
process failed to start or exited early, there may be error messages
in this file, particularly if the daemon
could not open it's own log file.
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/pmie_daily.log
default location for error messages generated during the daily
.B pmie
service maintenance operations.
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/<hostname>
default directory location for the pmie log file for the host
.I hostname
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmie/<hostname>/lock
transient lock file to guarantee mutual exclusion during
.B pmie
administration for the host
.I hostname
\- if present, can be safely removed if neither
.B pmie_daily
nor
.B pmie_check
are running
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES
PCP ``notices'' file used by
.BR pmie (1)
and friends
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR egrep (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmie (1),
.BR pmieconf (1),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR xz (1)
and
.BR cron (8).
