'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMJSON 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmjson\f1 \- Performance Co-Pilot JSON dumping utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmjson\f1
[\f3\-mpqyV?\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-i\f1 \f2infile\f1]
[\f3\-o\f1 \f2outfile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmjson
is used to manipulate JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) formatted
text used in the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP toolkit).
It can produce minimal and human readable output formats
when it is supplied with valid JSON input.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-i\fR \fIinfile\fR, \fB\-\-in\fR=\fIinfile\fR
JSON formatted input
.I infile
\- path to a file from which input should be read.
If this option is omitted, then
.B pmjson
will read from the standard input stream.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-minimal\fR
Produce JSON output with all superfluous whitespace removed
from the resulting JSON string.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIoutfile\fR, \fB\-\-out\fR=\fIoutfile\fR
Formatted output is written to the named
.IR outfile .
If this option is omitted, then
.B pmjson
will write to the standard output stream.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pretty\fR
Produce JSON output in a human-readable format.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Verify the input as valid JSON only, no output is produced.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yaml\fR
Produce YAML-like output, a human-readable format with less
syntactic sugar than JSON.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PMWEBAPI (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ YAML
