'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.\" $Id: pmkstat.1,v 2.21 2002/11/12 23:30:09 kenmcd Exp $
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMKSTAT 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMKSTAT 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMKSTAT 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMKSTAT 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMKSTAT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmkstat\f1 \- high-level system performance overview
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmkstat\f1
[\f3\-A\f1 \f2align\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-L\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2offset\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2samples\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
[\f3\-z\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmkstat
provides a one line summary of system performance every
.I interval
unit of time (the default is 5 seconds).
.B pmkstat
is intended to monitor system performance at the highest level,
after which other tools may be used to examine subsystems in which
potential performance problems may be observed in greater detail.
.P
The
.B \-t
option may be used to change the default reporting
.IR interval .
The
.I interval
argument follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1),
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer (the implied
units in this case are seconds).
.PP
By default,
.B pmkstat
fetches metrics by connecting to the Performance Metrics Collector
Daemon (PMCD) on the local host.  If the
.B \-L
option is specified, then
.BR pmcd (1)
is bypassed and root privileges are required
to retrieve the required metrics directly.
In this case, metrics are fetched from the local host
using the standalone
.B PM_CONTEXT_LOCAL
variant of
.BR pmNewContext (3).
When the
.B \-h
option is specified,
.B pmkstat
connects to the
.BR pmcd (1)
on
.I host
and fetches metrics from there.
.PP
Alternatively, if the
.B \-a
option is used, the metrics are retrieved from the Performance Co-Pilot
archive log files identified by the base name
.IR archive .
.PP
Standalone mode can only connect to the local host, using an archive implies
a host name, and nominating a host precludes using an archive, so the options
.BR \-L ,
.B \-a 
and
.B \-h
are mutually exclusive.
.PP
Normally
.B pmkstat
operates on the default Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is loaded
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.PP
If the
.B \-s
the option is specified, 
.I samples
defines the number of samples to be retrieved and reported.
If
.I samples
is 0 or
.B \-s
is not specified, 
.B pmkstat
will sample and report continuously \- this is the default behavior.
.PP
The
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-O
and
.B \-A
options may be used to define a time window to restrict the
samples retrieved, set an initial origin within the time window,
or specify a ``natural'' alignment of the sample times; refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of these options.
.P
Also when using archives, the
.B \-d
option requests that the prevailing real-time delay be applied between
samples (see
.BR \-t )
to effect a pause,
rather than the default behavior of replaying at full speed.
.PP
The output from
.B pmkstat
is directed to standard output, and the columns
in the report are interpreted as follows:
.PP
.TP 10
.B runq
Average number of runnable processes in main memory (\f3run\fP)
and in swap memory (\f3swp\fP) during the interval.
.TP
.B memory
The \f3free\fP column indicates average free memory during the interval,
in Kbytes.
The \f3page\fP column is the average number of page out operations
per second during the interval.
I/Os caused by these page out operations are included in the write I/O rate
(see \f3disks\fP, below).
.TP
.B system
System call rate (\f3scall\fP),
context switch rate (\f3ctxsw\fP)
and interrupt rate (\f3intr\fP).
Rates are expressed as average operations per second during the interval.
.TP
.B disks
Aggregated physical read (\f3rd\fP) and write (\f3wr\fP) rates
over all disks,
expressed as physical I/Os issued per second during the interval.
.TP
.B cpu
Percentage of CPU time spent executing user code (\f3usr\fP),
system and interrupt code (\f3sys\fP), idle loop (\f3idl\fP)
and idle waiting for resources, typically disk I/O (\f3wt\fP).
.IP
The meanings of \f3idl\f1 and \f3wt\f1 changed in the IRIX 6.5.13 release.
For details, see the \f3-U\f1 section of the
\f3sar\f1(1)
man page.
.PP
If any values for the associated performance metrics are unavailable,
the value appears as ``?'' in the output.
.PP
By default,
.B pmkstat
reports the time of day according to the local timezone on the
system where
.B pmkstat
is run.
The
.B \-Z
option changes the timezone to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (5).
The
.B \-z
option changes the timezone to the local timezone at the
host that is the source of the performance metrics, as identified via
either the
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
options.
.SH NOTES
The interrupt (\f3intr\fP) rate includes the
high frequency clock (and possibly some video-related and/or audio-related
interrupts),
and differs widely, even on idle systems, depending upon the
hardware configuration.
A more useful measure would be the delta above the quiescent
interrupt rate on
an idle system, but we have no way of measuring this.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/ *
default PMNS specification files
.TP
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.pmkstat
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration for creating an archive suitable for replay with
.B pmkstat
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmclient (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmNewContext (3),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All are generated on standard error, and are intended to be self-explanatory.
