'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Red Hat, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGPUSH 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogpush\f1 \- push an archive to a remote pmproxy server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogpush\f1
[\f3\-vV?\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2unix\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
\f2archive\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogpush
sends the contents of a Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive to a
HTTP server (typically to a remote
.BR pmproxy (1)
daemon) using the logger API subset within the
.BR PMWEBAPI (5).
The
.I archive
must have been previously created using
.BR pmlogger (1).
.PP
This archive should be complete and finished (not actively being
written to).
Comparable functionality is available directly from pmlogger, for
pushing archives remotely while they are actively being written.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-h\fR \fIhostname\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIhostname\fR
The
.I hostname
for the remote
.B pmproxy
server to receive the given PCP
.IR archive .
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fIport\fR
Internet socket
.I port
number where the remote
.B pmproxy
server is listening, waiting to receive the given PCP
.IR archive .
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIpath\fR, \fB\-\-socket\fR=\fIpath\fR
Unix domain socket
.I path
where a local
.B pmproxy
server is listening, waiting to receive the given PCP
.IR archive .
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase the diagnostic information reported as
.B pmlogpush
runs.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmproxy/<hostname>
Default directory for pushed PCP archives created (remotely) by
the receving
.B pmproxy
server.
The
.I hostname
is extracted from the given
.IR archive ,
as is the recording start time \- together these properties are used to
name the pushed archive on the receiving end (i.e. by the
.B pmproxy
server).
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmproxy (1),
.BR PMWEBAPI (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ pmpushlog { old name ref }
