'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2019 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMLOGGER_CHECK 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogger_check\f1,
\f3pmlogger_daily\f1 \- administration of Performance Co-Pilot archive log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_check
[\f3\-CNPpqsTV?\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
.br
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_daily
[\f3\-EfKMNoprRVzZ?\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
[\f3\-k\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2addresses\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2size\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2want\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-X\f1 \f2program\f1]
[\f3\-Y\f1 \f2regex\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These shell scripts and associated control files may be used to
create a customized regime of administration and management for
Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPIntro (1))
archive log files.
.PP
.B pmlogger_check
may be run at any time of the day and is intended to check that a desired set
of
.BR pmlogger (1)
processes are running.
If not, it (re-)starts any missing logger processes.
.PP
.B pmlogger_daily
is intended to be run once per day, preferably in the early morning, as
soon after midnight as practicable.
Its task is to aggregate, rotate and perform general housekeeping one or
more sets of PCP archives.
.PP
To accommodate the evolution of PMDAs and changes in production
logging environments,
.B pmlogger_daily
is integrated with
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
to allow optional and automatic rewriting of archives before merging.
If there are global rewriting rules to be applied across all archives
mentioned in the control file(s), then create the directory
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogrewrite
and place any
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
rewriting rules in this directory.
For rewriting rules that are specific to only one family of archives,
use the directory name from the control file(s) \- i.e. the
.I fourth
field \- and create a file, or a directory, or a symbolic link named
.B pmlogrewrite
within this directory
and place the required rewriting rule(s) in the
.B pmlogrewrite
file or in files
within the
.B pmlogrewrite
subdirectory.
.B pmlogger_daily
will choose rewriting rules from the archive directory if they
exist, else rewriting rules from
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogrewrite
if that directory exists, else no rewriting is attempted.
.PP
As an alternate mechanism, if the file
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/.NeedRewrite
exists when
.B pmlogger_daily
starts then this is treated the same as specifying
.B \-R
on the command line and
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/.NeedRewrite
will be removed once all the rewriting has been done.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB\-c\fR \fIcontrol\fR, \fB\-\-control\fR=\fIcontrol\fR
Both
.B pmlogger_check
and
.B pmlogger_daily
are controlled by PCP logger control file(s)
that specifies the
.B pmlogger
instances to be managed.
The default
.I control
file is
.BR $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH ,
but an alternate may be specified using the
.B \-c
option.
If the directory
.BR $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH .d
(or
.IR control .d
from the
.B \-c
option) exists, then the contents of any additional
.I control
files therein will be appended to the main control file (which must exist).
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
This option causes
.B pmlogger_check
to query the system service runlevel information for
.BR pmlogger ,
and use that to determine whether to start processes or not.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expunge\fR
This option causes
.B pmlogger_daily
to pass the
.B \-E
flag to
.B pmlogger_merge
in order to expunge metrics with metadata inconsistencies and continue
rather than fail.
This is intended for automated daily log rotation where it is highly desirable
for unattended daily archive merging, rewriting and compression to succeed.
For further details, see
.BR pmlogger_merge (1)
and description for the
.B \-x
flag in
.BR pmlogextract (1).
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This option causes
.B pmlogger_daily
to forces action.
Using this option in production is not recommended.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fItime\fR, \fB\-\-discard\fR=\fItime\fR
After some period, old PCP archives are discarded.
.I time
is a time specification in the syntax of
.BR find-filter (1),
so
\fIDD\fR[\fB:\fIHH\fR[\fB:\fIMM\fR]].
The optional
.I HH
(hours) and
.I MM
(minutes) parts are 0 if not specified.
By default the
.I time
is
.B 14:0:0
or 14 days, but may be changed using
this option.
.RS
.PP
Some special values are recognized for the
.IR time ,
namely
.B 0
to keep no archives beyond the the ones being currently written by
.BR pmlogger (1),
and
.B forever
or
.B never
to prevent any archives being discarded.
.PP
The
.I time
can also be set using the
.B $PCP_CULLAFTER
variable, set in either the environment or in a control file.
If both
.B $PCP_CULLAFTER
and
.B \-k
specify different values for
.I time
then the environment variable value is used and a warning is issued.
I.e., if
.B $PCP_CULLAFTER
is set in the
.I control
file, it overrides
.B \-k
given on the command line.
.PP
Note that the semantics of
.I time
are that it is measured from the time of last modification of each
archive, and not from the original archive creation date.
This has subtle implications for compression (see below) \- the
compression process results in the creation of new archive files
which have new modification times.
In this case, the
.I time
period (re)starts from the time of compression.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-K\fR
When this option is specified for
.B pmlogger_daily
then only the compression tasks are attempted, so no
.BR pmlogger
rotation, no culling, no rewriting, etc.
When
.B \-K
is used and a
.I period
of
.B 0
is in effect
(from
.B \-x
on the command line or
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
in the environment or via the
.I control
file)
this is intended for environments where compression
of archives is desired before the scheduled daily processing
happens.
To achieve this, once
.B pmlogger_check
has completed regular processing, it calls
.B pmlogger_daily
with just the
.B \-K
option.
Provided
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
is set to
.B 0
along with any other required compression options to match the
scheduled invocation of
.BR pmlogger_daily ,
then this will compress all volumes except the ones being currently
written by
.BR pmlogger (1).
If
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
is set to a value greater than zero, then manually running
.B pmlogger_daily with the
.B \-x
option may be used to compress volumes that are younger than the
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
time.
This may be used to reclaim filesystem space by compressing volumes
earlier than they would have otherwise been compressed.
Note that since the default value of
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
is 0 days, the
.B \-x
option has no effect unless the
.B control
file has been edited and
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
has been set to a value greater than 0.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIfile\fR
In order to ensure that mail is not unintentionally sent when these
scripts are run from
.BR cron (8)
diagnostics are always sent to log files.
By default, this file is
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/pmlogger_check.log
or
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/pmlogger_daily.log
but this can be changed using the
.B \-l
option.
If this log
.I file
already exists when the script starts, it will be
renamed with a
.I .prev
suffix (overwriting any log file saved earlier) before diagnostics
are generated to the log file.
The
.B \-l
and
.B \-t
options cannot be used together.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIaddresses\fR, \fB\-\-mail\fR=\fIaddresses\fR
Use of this option causes
.B pmlogger_daily
to construct a summary of the ``notices'' file entries which were
generated in the last 24 hours, and e-mail that summary to the set of
space-separated
.IR addresses .
This daily summary is stored in the file
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES.daily ,
which will be empty when no new ``notices'' entries were made in the
previous 24 hour period.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
This option may be used to disable archive merging (or renaming) and rewriting
(\c
.B \-M
implies
.BR \-r ).
This is most useful in cases where the archives are being incrementally
copied to a remote repository, e.g. using
.BR rsync (1).
Merging, renaming and rewriting all risk an increase in the synchronization
load, especially immediately after
.B pmlogger_daily
has run, so
.B \-M
may be useful in these cases.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-showme\fR
This option enables a ``show me'' mode, where the programs actions are
echoed, but not executed, in the style of ``make \-n''.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
By default all possible archives will be merged.
This option reinstates the old behaviour in which only yesterday's archives
will be considered as merge candidates.
In the special case where only a single input archive
needs to be merged,
.BR pmlogmv (1)
is used to rename the archive, otherwise
.BR pmlogger_merge (1)
is used to merge all of the archives for a single host and a single day into a new
PCP archive and the individual archives are removed.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-skip\-primary\fR
If this option is specified for
.B pmlogger_check
then any line from the control files for the
.I primary
.B pmlogger
will be ignored.
This option is intended for environments where some system daemon,
like
.BR systemd (1),
is responsible for controlling (starting, stopping, restarting, etc.) the
.I primary
.BR pmlogger .
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-only\-primary\fR
If this option is specified for
.B pmlogger_check
then only the primary logger entry in the control files will be processed.
This is the logical opposite of the \fB\-p\fP option described above
and is intended for use by RC scripts that start only the primary logger,
such as the
.B pmlogger.service
unit.
The \fB\-p\fP and \fB\-P\fP options to \fBpmlogger_check\fP are mutually exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
If this option is specified for
.B pmlogger_daily
then the status of the daily processing is polled and if the daily
.BR pmlogger (1)
rotation, culling, rewriting, compressing, etc.
has not been done in the last 24 hours then it is done now.
The intent is to have
.B pmlogger_daily
called regularly with the
.B \-p
option (at 30 mins past the hour, every hour in the default
.BR cron (8)
set up) to ensure daily processing happens as soon as possible if
it was missed at the regularly scheduled time (which is 00:10
by default), e.g. if the system was down or suspended at that
time.
With this option
.B pmlogger_daily
simply exits if the previous day's processing has already been
done.
Note that this option is not used on platforms supporting
.BR systemd (1)
because the
.B pmlogger_daily.timer
service unit specifies a timer setting with
.BR Persistent=true .
The
.B \-K
and
.B \-p
options to
.B pmlogger_daily
are mutually exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quick\fR
If this option is specified for
.B pmlogger_check
then the script will ``quickstart'' avoiding any optional processing
like file compression.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-norewrite\fR
This command line option acts as an override and prevents all archive
rewriting with
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
independent of the presence of any rewriting rule files or directories.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-rewriteall\fR
Sometimes PMDA changes require
.I all
archives to be rewritten,
not just the ones involved
in any current merging.
This is required for example after a PCP upgrade where a new version of an
existing PMDA has revised metadata.
The
.B \-R
command line forces this universal-style of rewriting.
The
.B \-R
option to
.B pmlogger_daily
is mutually exclusive with both the
.B \-r
and
.B \-M
options.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsize\fR, \fB\-\-rotate\fR=\fIsize\fR
If the PCP ``notices'' file (\c
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES )
is larger than 20480 bytes,
.B pmlogger_daily
will rename the file with a ``.old'' suffix, and start
a new ``notices'' file.
The rotate threshold may be changed from 20480 to
.I size
bytes using the
.B \-s
option.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR
Use of this option provides the reverse
.B pmlogger_check
functionality, allowing the set of
.B pmlogger
processes to be cleanly shutdown.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIperiod\fR
To assist with debugging or diagnosing intermittent failures the
.B \-t
option may be used.
This will turn on very verbose tracing (\c
.BR \-VV )
and capture the trace output in a file named
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/daily. datestamp .trace,
where
.I datestamp
is the time
.B pmlogger_daily
was run in the format YYYYMMDD.HH.MM.
In addition, the
.I period
argument will ensure that trace files created with
.B \-t
will be kept for
.I period
days and then discarded.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-terse\fR
This option to
.B pmlogger_check
produces less verbose output than the default.
This is most suitable for a
.I pmlogger
\&``farm'' where many instances of
.I pmlogger
are expected to be running.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
The output from the
.BR cron
execution of the scripts may be extended using the
.B \-V
option to the scripts which will enable verbose tracing of their activity.
By default the scripts generate no output unless some error or warning
condition is encountered.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fItime\fR, \fB\-\-compress\-after\fR=\fItime\fR
Archive data files can optionally be compressed after some period
to conserve disk space.
This is particularly useful for large numbers of
.B pmlogger
processes under the control of
.BR pmlogger_check .
.RS
.PP
.I time
is a time specification in the syntax of
.BR find-filter (1),
so
\fIDD\fR[\fB:\fIHH\fR[\fB:\fIMM\fR]].
The optional
.I HH
(hours) and
.I MM
(minutes) parts are 0 if not specified.
.PP
Some special values are recognized for the
.IR time ,
namely
.B 0
to apply compression as soon as possible, and
.B forever
or
.B never
to prevent any compression being done.
.PP
If
.B transparent_decompress
is enabled when
.I libpcp
was built
(can be checked with the
.BR pmconfig (1)
.B \-L
option),
then the default behaviour is compression ``as soon as possible''.
Otherwise the default behaviour is to
.B not
compress files (which matches the historical default behaviour in
earlier PCP releases).
.PP
The
.I time
can also be set using the
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
variable, set in either the environment or in a
.I control
file.
If both
.B $PCP_COMPRESSAFTER
and
.B \-x
specify different values for
.I time
then the environment variable value is used and a warning is issued.
For important other detailed notes concerning volume compression, see the
.B \-K
and
.B \-k
options (above).
.RE
.TP
\fB\-X\fR \fIprogram\fR, \fB\-\-compressor\fR=\fIprogram\fR
This option specifies the program to use for compression \- by default
this is
.BR xz (1).
The environment variable
.B $PCP_COMPRESS
may be used as an alternative mechanism to define
.IR program .
If both
.B $PCP_COMPRESS
and
.B \-X
specify different compression programs
then the environment variable value is used and a warning is issued.
.TP
\fB\-Y\fR \fIregex\fR, \fB\-\-regex\fR=\fIregex\fR
This option allows a regular expression to be specified causing files in
the set of files matched for compression to be omitted \- this allows
only the data file to be compressed, and also prevents the program from
attempting to compress it more than once.
The default
.I regex
is "\.(index|Z|gz|bz2|zip|xz|lzma|lzo|lz4)$" \- such files are
filtered using the
.B \-v
option to
.BR egrep (1).
The environment variable
.B $PCP_COMPRESSREGEX
may be used as an alternative mechanism to define
.IR regex .
If both
.B $PCP_COMPRESSREGEX
and
.B \-Y
specify different values for
.I regex
then the environment variable value is used and a warning is issued.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR
This option causes
.B pmlogger_daily
to
.B not
\&``re-exec'', see
.BR pmlogger (1),
when it would otherwise choose to do so
and is intended only for QA testing.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR
This option causes
.B pmlogger_daily
to ``re-exec'', see
.BR pmlogger (1),
whenever that is possible
and is intended only for QA testing.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.BR Warning :
The
.B $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
file and files within the
.BR $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH .d
directory must not be writable by any user other than root.
.PP
The control file(s) should be customized according to the following rules
that define for the current version (1.1)
of the control file format.
.IP 1. 4m
Lines beginning with a ``#'' are comments.
A special case is lines beginning ``#!#''; these are control lines
for a
.BR pmlogger (1)
that has been stopped using
.BR pmlogctl (1).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Lines beginning with a ``$'' are assumed to be
assignments to environment variables in the style of
.BR sh (1),
and all text following the ``$'' will be
.BR eval 'ed
by the script reading the control file,
and the corresponding variable exported into the environment.
This is particularly
useful to set and export variables into the environment of
the administrative scripts, e.g.
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
$ PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 3.
There
.B must
be a version line in the initial control file of the form:
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
$ version=1.1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 4.
There should be one line in the control file(s)
for each
.B pmlogger
instance of the form:

.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f2host\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f2directory\f1 \f2args\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n

.IP 5.
Fields within a line of the control file(s)
are usually separated by one or more spaces or tabs (although refer to
the description of the
.I directory
field for some important exceptions).
.IP 6.
The
.I first
field is the name of the host that is the source of the
performance metrics for this
.B pmlogger
instance.
.IP 7.
The
.I second
field indicates if this is a
.I primary
.B pmlogger
instance (\c
.BR y )
or not (\c
.BR n ).
Since the primary logger must run on the local host, and there may be
at most one primary logger for a particular host, this field can be
.B y
for at most one
.B pmlogger
instance, in which case the host name must be the name of the local host.
.IP 8.
The
.I third
field indicates if this
.B pmlogger
instance needs to be started under the control of
.BR pmsocks (1)
to connect to a
.B pmcd
through a firewall (\c
.B y
or
.BR n ).
.IP 9.
The
.I fourth
field is a directory name.  All files
associated with this
.B pmlogger
instance will be created in this directory,
and this will be the current directory for the execution of
any programs required in the maintenance of those archives.
A useful convention is that primary logger archives for the local host
with hostname
.I myhost
are maintained in the directory
.BI $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/ myhost
(this is where the default
.B pmlogger
start-up script in
.B $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp
will create the archives), while archives for the remote host
.I mumble
are maintained in
.BI $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/ mumble\fR.
.IP 10.
The directory field may contain embedded shell syntax that will be
evaluated by
.BR sh (1)
to produce the real directory name to be used.  The allowed constructs
are:
.RS
.nr PD 0
.IP \(bu 2m
Any text (including white space) enclosed with
.B $(
and
.BR ).
.IP \(bu
Any text (including white space) enclosed with
.B \[ga]
and
.B \[ga]
(back quotes).
.IP \(bu
Any text (including white space) enclosed with
.B \[dq]
and
.B \[dq]
(double quotes).
.IP \(bu
Any word containing a
.B $
(assumed to introduce an environment variable name).
.nr PD
.RE
.IP 11.
All other fields are interpreted as arguments to be passed to
.BR pmlogger (1).
Most typically this would be the
.B \-c
option.
.PD
.PP
The following sample control lines specify a primary logger
on the local host (\c
.IR bozo ),
and non-primary loggers to collect and log
performance metrics from the hosts
.I wobbly
and
.IR boing .
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
$version=1.1
bozo   y  n  $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/bozo   \-c config.default
wobbly n  n  "/store/wobbly/$(date +%Y)"  \-c ./wobbly.config
boing  n  n  $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/boing  \-c ./pmlogger.config
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
Typical
.BR crontab (5)
entries for periodic execution of
.B pmlogger_daily
and
.B pmlogger_check
are given in
.BR $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/crontab
(unless installed by default in
.I /etc/cron.d
already)
and shown below.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
# daily processing of archive logs
14      0       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_daily
# every 30 minutes, check pmlogger instances are running
25,55   *       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_check
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
When using
.BR systemd (1)
on Linux,
no
.B crontab
entries are needed as the timer mechanism provided by
.B systemd
is used instead.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
the PCP logger control file.
For a new installation
this file contains no
.BR pmlogger (1)
control lines (the real control files are all
in the
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH.d
directory), but this file is still processed to support any
legacy configurations therein from earlier PCP releases.
.br
.BR Warning :
this file must not be writable by any user other than root.
.TP
.I $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH.d
optional directory containing additional PCP logger control files,
typically one per host
.br
.BR Warning :
the files herein must not be writable by any user other than root.
.TP
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/crontab
sample crontab for automated script execution by $PCP_USER (or root).
Exists only if the platform does not support the /etc/cron.d mechanism.
.TP
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.default
default
.B pmlogger
configuration file location for the local primary logger, typically
generated automatically by
.BR pmlogconf (1).
.TP
.I $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/<hostname>
default location for archives of performance information collected from the host
.I hostname
.TP
.I $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/<hostname>/lock
transient lock file to guarantee mutual exclusion during
.B pmlogger
administration for the host
.I hostname
\- if present, can be safely removed if neither
.B pmlogger_daily
nor
.B pmlogger_check
are running
.TP
.I $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/<hostname>/Latest
PCP archive folio created by
.BR mkaf (1)
for the most recently launched archive containing performance metrics from
the host
.I hostname
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES
PCP ``notices'' file used by
.BR pmie (1)
and friends
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/pmlogger_check.log
if the previous execution of
.B pmlogger_check
produced any output it is saved here.
The normal case is no output in which case the file does not exist.
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/pmlogger_daily.log
if the previous execution of
.B pmlogger_daily
produced any output it is saved here.
The normal case is no output in which case the file does not exist.
.TP
.I $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/<hostname>/SaveLogs
if this directory exists,
then the log file from the
.B \-l
argument
of a newly launched
.BR pmlogger (1)
for
.I hostname
will be linked into this directory with the name
.IB archive .log
where
.I archive
is the basename of the associated
.BR pmlogger (1)
PCP archive files.
This allows the log file to be inspected at a later time, even if
several
.BR pmlogger (1)
instances for
.I hostname
have been launched in the interim.
Because the cron-driven PCP archive management scripts run under
the uid of the user ``pcp'',
.BI $PCP_ARCHIVE_DIR/ hostname /SaveLogs
typically needs to be owned by the user ``pcp''.
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/.NeedRewrite
if this file exists, then this is treated as equivalent to using
.B \-R
on the command line and the file will be removed once all rewriting
has been done.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.PP
The default behaviour, when
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration comes from
.BR pmlogconf (1),
is to regenerate the configuration file and check for
changes whenever
.BR pmlogger (1)
is started from
.BR pmlogger_check.
If the PMDA configuration is stable, this is not necessary,
and setting
.B $PMLOGGER_CHECK_SKIP_LOGCONF
to
.B yes
disables the regeneration and checking.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY ISSUES"
Earlier versions of
.B pmlogger_daily
used
.BR find (1)
to locate files for compressing or culling and the
.B \-k
and
.B \-x
options took only integer values to mean ``days''.
The semantics of this was quite loose given that
.BR find (1)
offers different precision and semantics across platforms.
.PP
The current implementation of
.B pmlogger_daily
uses
.BR find-filter (1)
which provides high precision intervals and semantics that are
relative to the time of execution and are consistent across
platforms.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR egrep (1),
.BR find-filter (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmconfig (1),
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogconf (1),
.BR pmlogctl (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogger_daily_report (1),
.BR pmlogger_merge (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmlogmv (1),
.BR pmlogrewrite (1),
.BR pmsocks (1),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR xz (1)
and
.BR cron (8).
