'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMLOGCONF 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogconf\f1 \- create/edit a pmlogger configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogconf\f1
[\f3\-cqrv\f1]
[\f3\-d\f2 groupsdir\f1]
[\f3\-h\f2 hostname\f1]
\f2configfile\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogconf
may be used to create and modify a generic configuration file for
the PCP archive logger,
.BR pmlogger (1).
.PP
If
.I configfile
does not exist,
.B pmlogconf
will create a generic configuration file with a
default set of enabled metrics and logging intervals.
.PP
Once created,
.I configfile
may be used with the
.B \-c
option to
.BR pmlogger (1)
to select performance metrics and specify
logging intervals for a PCP archive.
.PP
If
.I configfile
does exist,
.B pmlogconf
will prompt for input from the user to enable or disable groups
of related performance metrics and to control the logging interval
for each enabled group.
.PP
Group selection requires a simple
.B y
(yes)
or
.B n
(no) response to the prompt
.BR "Log this group?" .
.PP
Other responses at this point may be used to select
additional control functions as follows:
.IP \fBm\fP 10n
Report the names of the metrics in the current group.
.IP \fBq\fP 10n
Finish with group selection (quit) and make no further changes to
this group or any subsequent group.
.IP \fB/\fIpattern\fP 10n
Make no change to this group but search for a group containing
.I pattern
in the description of the group or the names
of the associated metrics.
.PP
A logging interval is specified by responding to the
.B "Logging interval?"
prompt with the keywords
.B once
or
.B default
or a valid
.BR pmlogger (1)
interval specification of the form ``\c
.B every
.IR "N timeunits" ''
or simply ``\c
.I "N timeunits" ''
(the
.B every
is optional) where
.I N
is an unsigned integer and
.I timeunits
is one of the keywords
.BR msec ,
.BR millisecond ,
.BR sec ,
.BR second ,
.BR min ,
.BR minute ,
.BR hour
or the plural form of one of the keywords.
.PP
When run from automated logging setup processes, the
.B \-c
option is used to indicate that
.I pmlogconf
is in auto-create mode and no interactive dialog takes place.
The output
.I configfile
has an additional comment message
and timestamp indicating this fact, so that it can be
identified and subsequently updated using
.B \-c
again.
This option is not appropriate for interactive use of the tool.
.PP
The
.B \-q
option suppresses the logging interval dialog and preserves the
current interval from
.IR configfile .
.PP
More verbose output may be enabled with the
.B \-v
option.
.SH "SETUP GROUP FILES"
When an initial
.I configfile
is created, the default specifications come from a set of group
files below the
.I groupsdir
specified with the
.B \-d
option (the default
.I groupsdir
is
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogconf
which is most commonly correct, so the
.B \-d
option is rarely used in practice).
.PP
The directory structure below
.I groupsdir
is arbitrary as all regular files will be found by recursive descent and considered, so add-on products
and PMDA developers can easily extend the available defaults to
.B pmlogconf
by adding new directories and/or group files below
.IR groupsdir .
.PP
These group files are processed in the following ways:
.IP \(bu 3n
When a new
.I configfile
is created, all group files are processed.
.IP \(bu 3n
Whenever
.B pmlogconf
is run with an existing
.IR configfile ,
.I groupsdir
is traversed to see if any new groups have been defined and should be
considered for inclusion in
.IR configfile .
.IP \(bu 3n
When
.B pmlogconf
processes a group in
.I configfile
that is enabled, the list of metrics associated with the group is
taken from the group file (and replaces any previous list of metrics
associated with this group in
.IR configfile ).
.IP \(bu 3n
When either the
.B \-r
(reprobe) or the
.B \-c
(auto-create) command line option is specified, every group (not just newly
discovered ones) is reprocessed to see
if it should be considered for inclusion in
.IR configfile .
.IP \(bu 3n
If a group is found in
.I configfile
but the corresponding group does not exist below
.I groupsdir
(as would be the case when a group is made obsolete by a PCP upgrade)
then the handling of the group depends on the mode in which
.I pmlogconf
is being run.
With
.B \-c
the corresponding group is culled from
.IR configfile ,
otherwise the corresponding group is unchanged in
.IR configfile .
In either case a warning is issued.
.PP
Each group file is structured as follows:
.IP \(bu 3n
The first line must contain
.B #pmlogconf-setup 2.0
.IP \(bu 3n
Other lines beginning with
.B #
are treated as comments.
.IP \(bu 3n
Blank lines are ignored.
.IP \(bu 3n
One or more lines starting with the keyword
.B ident 
are used to provide the human-readable description of the group.
.IP \(bu 3n
Non-blank lines beginning with white space define metrics to be associated
with this group, one per line.  Each metric specification follows the rules
for a
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration, namely either the name of a non-leaf node in the PMNS
(implying all descendent names in the PMNS), or the name of a leaf
node in the PMNS optionally followed by one or more instance names
enclosed by ``['' and ``]''.
.IP \(bu 3n
A control line starting with one of the keywords 
.B probe
or
.B force
must be present.
.IP \(bu 3n
An optional logging interval control line begins with the
keyword
.B delta
followed by one of the
.BR pmlogger (1)
interval specification described above.
.IP \(bu 3n
.B probe
control lines have the format:
.RS 3n
.br
.ce
\fBprobe\fR \fImetric\fR [\fIcondition\fR [\fIstate_rule\fR] ]
.br
where
.I metric
is the name of a PCP metric (must be a leaf node in the PMNS,
no instance specification is allowed, and it must not be a
derived metric) and the optional
.I condition
is the keyword
.B exists
(true if
.I metric
exists, i.e. is defined in the PMNS) or the keyword
.B values
(true if
.I metric
exists in the PMNS and has one or more current values)
or an expression of the form
.br
.ce
\fIop\fR \fIval\fR
where
.I op
is one of the 
.BR awk (1)
operators (\fB==\fR, \fB!=\fR, \fB>\fR, \fB>=\fR, \fB<\fR, \fB<=\fR,
\fB~\fR (regular expression match) or
\fB!~\fR (negated regular expression match))
and
.I val
is a value (arbitrary sequence of characters, excluding a space)
and the
.I condition
is true if there is some instance of
.I metric
that makes the expression true.
.PP
If the
.I condition
is missing, the default is
.BR exists .
.PP
When an explicit
.I condition
is provided, there may also be an optional
.I state_rule
of the form
.br
.ce
\fB?\fR \fItrue_state\fR \fB:\fR \fIfalse_state\fR
where
.I true_state
(applies if
.I condition
is true) and
.I false_state
(applies if
.I condition
is false) are both taken from the keywords
.B include
(include and enable the group and the associated metrics in
.IR configfile ),
.B available
(include and disable the group in
.I configfile
\- a user action of
.B y
as described above is needed to enable the group and
add the associated metrics into
.IR configfile )
or
.B exclude
(the group is not considered for inclusion in
.IR configfile ).
.PP
The default
.I state_rule
is
.br
.ce
.ft B
? available : exclude
.ft R
.RE
.IP \(bu 3n
.B force
control lines begin with the keyword
.B force
followed by one of the states defined above, so
one of the actions
.BR include ,
.B exclude
or
.B available
is applied unconditionally to the group. 
.PP
Probing is only done when a new group is being added to
.I configfile
or when the
.B \-r
command line option is specified.  The evaluation of the probing
conditions is done by contacting
.BR pmcd (1)
on
.I hostname
(defaults to local:).
.SH EXAMPLE
The following group file demonstrates all of the supported
syntactic elements.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
#pmlogconf-setup 2.0
ident   Example group file
ident   ... more description
delta   1 minute
probe   sample.secret.foo.one values ? include : exclude
        sample.secret.foo.one
        sample.secret.foo.bar   # non-leaf in the PMNS
        sample.colour [ red green ]
.fi
.ft
.SH MIGRATION
The current version of
.B pmlogconf
(2.0)
supports a slightly different format for
.I configfile
compared to earlier versions.  If an old version
.I configfile
is presented to
.B pmlogconf
it will be converted to the new format.
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
Note that
.B pmlogconf
specifically overrides its own
.B $PCP_DERIVED_CONFIG
environment variable to an empty string, for performance reasons.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
