'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2023 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGREDACT 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogredact\f1 \- remove sensitive information from PCP archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogredact\f1
[\f3\-vx?\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2config\f1]
\f2inarch\f1 [\f2outarch\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archives may contain a wealth of information
collected from across all components of a system.
.PP
Some of this information may be deemed sensitive outside the context
of the original collection for analysis of system performance.
Examples of sensitive information might include user names, paths to
user home directories (that may imply user names), hostnames, IP
addresses, MAC addresses, command line arguments, process environment
variables, etc.
.PP
.B pmlogredact
may be used to remove sensitive information before archives are
shipped to another organization, or stored in another geography, or
to meet regulatory or privacy compliance.
The output archive
.I outarch
is the redacted version of the input archive
.IR inarch .
.PP
.B pmlogredact
is a thin wrapper around
.BR pmlogrewrite (1),
and so the configuration files for
.B pmlogredact
follow the same syntax as the configuration files for
.BR pmlogrewrite (1).
.PP
There are a default set of redaction rules in the
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogredact/*
files.
These rules remove some metrics, rewrite the instance domains
of some metrics and rewrite the values of some metrics.
The
.B \-x
option may be used to
.B not
use the default set of rules.
.PP
Additional (or alternative) configuration files may be specified with
one or more
.B \-c
options, where each
.I config
is either a file or a directory (implying all the files within that
directory).
.PP
The
.B \-v
option adds verbosity (and is passed directly to
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)).
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogredact/*
default redaction rules
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmlogrewrite (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
