'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMLOGGER_DAILY 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogger_daily\f1,
\f3pmlogger_check\f1,
\f3pmlogger_merge\f1 \- administration of Performance Co-Pilot archive log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_daily
[\f3\-NorV\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
[\f3\-k\f1 \f2discard\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2addresses\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2size\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2want\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2compress\f1]
[\f3\-X\f1 \f2program\f1]
[\f3\-Y\f1 \f2regex\f1]
.br
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_check
[\f3\-NTV\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
.br
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_merge
[\f3\-fNV\f1]
[\f2input-basename\f1 ... \f2output-name\f1]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This series of shell scripts and associated control files may be used to
create a customized regime of administration and management for
Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPintro (1))
archive log files.
.PP
.B pmlogger_daily ,
.B pmlogger_check ,
and
.B pmlogger_merge
are equivalent to the scripts
.BR cron.pmdaily ,
.BR cron.pmcheck
and
.BR cron.pmlogmerge 
which are deprecated but preserved on some older platforms
for backward compatibility.
.PP
.B pmlogger_daily
is intended to be run once per day, preferably in the early morning, as
soon after midnight as practicable.  Its task is to aggregate and rotate
one or more sets of PCP archives.
After some period, old PCP archives are discarded.  This period is
14 days by default, but may be changed using the
.B \-k
option. Two special values are recognized for the period (\c
.IR discard ),
namely
.B 0
to keep no archives beyond the current one, and
.B forever
to prevent any archives being discarded.
.PP
Archive data files can optionally be compressed after some period (\c
.IR compress ),
to conserve disk space.  This is particularly useful for large numbers of
.B pmlogger
processes under the control of
.BR pmlogger_check .
The
.B \-x
option specifies the number of days after which to compress archive data
files, and the
.B \-X
option specifies the program to use for compression \- by default this is
.BR bzip2 (1).
Use of the
.B \-Y
option allows a regular expression to be specified causing files in
the set of files matched for compression to be omitted \- this allows
only the data file to be compressed, and also prevents the program from
attempting to compress it more than once.  The default
.I regex
is ".meta$|.index$|.Z$|.gz$|.bz2|.zip$" \- such files are filtered using the
.B \-v
option to
.BR egrep (1).
.PP
In addition, if the
PCP ``notices'' file (\c
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES )
is larger than 20480 bytes,
.B pmlogger_daily
will rename the file with a ``.old'' suffix, and start
a new ``notices'' file.
The rotate threshold may be changed from 20480 to
.I size
bytes using the
.B \-s
option.
.PP
Use of the
.B \-m
option causes
.B pmlogger_daily
to construct a summary of the ``notices'' file entries which were
generated in the last 24 hours, and e-mail that summary to the set of
space-separated
.IR addresses .
This daily summary is stored in the file
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES.daily ,
which will be empty when no new ``notices'' entries were made in the previous
24 hour period.
.PP
.B pmlogger_check
may be run at any time, and is intended to check that the desired set
of
.BR pmlogger (1)
processes are running, and if not to re-launch any failed loggers.
.PP
.B pmlogger_merge
is a wrapper script for
.BR pmlogmerge (1)
that merges all of the archive logs matching the
.I input-basename
arguments, and creates a new archive using 
.I output-name
as the base name for the physical files that constitute
an archive log.
The
.I input-basename
arguments may contain meta characters in the style of
.BR sh (1).
If specified, the
.B \-f
option causes all of the input files to be removed once the output
archive has been created.
.PP
.B pmlogger_merge
is used by
.BR pmlogger_daily .
.PP
To assist with debugging or diagnosing intermittent failures the
.B \-t
option may be used.  This will turn on very verbose tracing (\c
.BR \-VV )
and capture the trace output in a file named
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/daily. datestamp .trace,
where
.I datestamp
is the time
.B pmlogger_daily
was run in the format YYYYMMDD.HH.MM.
In addition, the
.I want
argument will ensure that trace files created with
.B \-t
will be kept for
.I want
days and then discarded.
.PP
Both
.B pmlogger_daily
and
.B pmlogger_check
are controlled by a PCP logger control file
that specifies the
.B pmlogger
instances to be managed.  The default control file is
.BR $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH ,
but an alternate may be specified using the
.B \-c
option.
.PP
The control file should be customized according to the following rules
that define for the current version (1.1)
of the control file format.
.IP 1.
Lines beginning with a ``#'' are comments.
.PD 0 parameters of the
.IP 2.
Lines beginning with a ``$'' are assumed to be
assignments to environment variables in the style of
.BR sh (1),
and all text following the ``$'' will be
.BR eval 'ed
by the script reading the control file,
and the corresponding variable exported into the environment.
This is particularly
useful to set and export variables into the environment of
the administrative scripts, e.g.
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
$ PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.br
.BR Warning :
The
.B $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
file is a potential security risk and should not be writable by any user other
than root.
.br
.IP 3.
There
.B must
be a version line of the form:
.br
.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
$ version=1.1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n
.IP 4.
There should be one line in the control file
for each
.B pmlogger
instance of the form:

.in +4n
.ft CW
.nf
\f2host\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f2directory\f1 \f2args\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in -4n

.IP 5.
Fields within a line of the control file
are separated by one or more spaces or tabs.
.IP 6.
The
.I first
field is the name of the host that is the source of the
performance metrics for this
.B pmlogger
instance.
.IP 7.
The
.I second
field indicates if this is a
.I primary
.B pmlogger
instance (\c
.BR y )
or not (\c
.BR n ).
Since the primary logger must run on the local host, and there may be
at most one primary logger for a particular host, this field can be
.B y
for at most one
.B pmlogger
instance, in which case the host name must be the name of the local host.
.IP 8.
The
.I third
field indicates if this
.B pmlogger
instance needs to be started under the control of
.BR pmsocks (1)
to connect to a
.B pmcd
through a firewall (\c
.B y
or
.BR n ).
.IP 9.
The
.I fourth
field is a directory name.  All files
associated with this
.B pmlogger
instance will be created in this directory,
and this will be the current directory for the execution of
any programs required in the maintenance of those archives.
A useful convention is that primary logger archives for the local host
with hostname
.I myhost
are maintained in the directory
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ myhost
(this is where the default
.B pmlogger
start-up script in
.B $PCP_RC_DIR/pcp
will create the archives), while archives for the remote host
.I mumble
are maintained in
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ mumble\fR.
.IP 10.
All other fields are interpreted as arguments to be passed to
.BR pmlogger (1)
and/or
.BR pmnewlog (1).
Most typically this would be the
.B \-c
option.
.PD
.PP
The following sample control lines specify a primary logger
on the local host (\c
.IR bozo ),
and a non-primary logger to collect and log
performance metrics from the host
.IR boing .
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
$version=1.1
bozo   y  n  $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/bozo   \-c config.default
boing  n  n  $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/boing  \-c ./pmlogger.config
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
Typical
.BR crontab (5)
entries for periodic execution of
.B pmlogger_daily
and
.B pmlogger_check
are given in
.BR $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/crontab
and shown below.
Due to the file permissions involved, these should be added to the
.I crontab
for root if automated PCP archive log maintenance is desired.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
# daily processing of archive logs
14      0       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_daily
# every 30 minutes, check pmlogger instances are running
28,58   *       *       *       *       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_check
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
Alternate redirection of the output from the
.BR cron (1)
execution of the scripts may be controlled as follows:
.IP (1) 4n
The
.B \-V
option to the scripts will enable verbose tracing of their activity.
By default the scripts generate no output unless some error or warning condition is
encountered.
.IP (2)
To redirect the e-mail from
.BR cron (1)
away from the root login,
.RS +4n
.IP + 2n
Instead of using the ``root'' login,
create a special login with uid equal to 0, e.g. \c
.BR su_pcp .
The password may be locked and/or the shell invalid to prevent login
or
.B su (1),
but the home directory should exist.
For example the following entry in
.BR /etc/passwd :

.ti +4n
.ft CW
.nf
su_pcp:x:0:0:PCP Housekeeping:/usr/people/su_pcp:/dev/null
.fi
.IP +
.ft R
Create a
.B $HOME/.forward
for
.BR su_pcp ,
else an entry in
.B /usr/lib/aliases
for
.BR su_pcp ,
redirecting the e-mail to a real user or user(s).
.IP +
Add the ``crontab'' entries above to the crontab file for
.B su_pcp
not
.BR root ,
e.g. in the file
.B /usr/spool/cron/crontabs/su_pcp
.RE
.PP
The
.B \-N
option enables a ``show me'' mode, where the actions are echoed,
but not executed, in the style of ``make \-n''.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.PP
By default all possible archives will be merged.  The
.B \-o
option reinstates the old behaviour in which only yesterday's archives
will be considered as merge candidates.
.PP
The
.B \-T
option provides a terser form of output for
.B pmlogger_check
that is most suitable for a
.I pmlogger
\&``farm'' where many instances of
.I pmlogger
are expected to be running.
.PP
To accommodate the evolution of PMDAs and changes in production
logging environments,
.B pmlogger_daily
is integrated with
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
to allow optional and automatic rewriting of archives before merging.
If there are global rewriting rules to be applied across all archives
mentioned in the control file, then create the directory
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogrewrite
and place any
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
rewriting rules in this directory.
For rewriting rules that are specific to only one family of archives,
use the directory name from the control file (the
.I fourth
field) and create a file, or a directory, or a symbolic link named
.B pmlogrewrite
within this directory
and place the required rewriting rule(s) in the
.B pmlogrewrite
file or in files
within the
.B pmlogrewrite
subdirectory.
.B pmlogger_daily
will choose rewriting rules from the archive directory if they
exist, else rewriting rules from
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogrewrite
if that directory exists, else no rewriting is attempted.
.PP
The
.B \-r
command line option acts as an over-ride and
prevents all archive rewriting with
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
independent of the presence of any rewriting rule files or directories.

.PP
The script
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_daily
could be copied and modified to implement a site-specific procedure for
end-of-week and/or end-of-month management for a set of PCP archives.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMLOGGERCONTROL_PATH
the PCP logger control file
.br
.BR Warning :
this file is a potential security risk and should not be writable by any user
other than root.
.TP
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/crontab
sample crontab for automated script execution by root
.TP
.B $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/config.default
default
.B pmlogger
configuration file for the local primary logger
.TP
.BI $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmlogger/ config.*
other
.B pmlogger
configuration files suited for particular PCP monitoring tools,
add-on products and application environments
.TP
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ hostname
default location for archives of performance information collected from the host
.I hostname
.TP
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ hostname /lock
transient lock file to guarantee mutual exclusion during
.B pmlogger
administration for the host
.I hostname
\- if present, can be safely removed if neither
.B pmlogger_daily
nor
.B pmlogger_check
are running
.TP
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ hostname /Latest
PCP archive folio created by
.BR mkaf (1)
for the most recently launched archive containing performance metrics from
the host
.I hostname
.TP
.B $PCP_LOG_DIR/NOTICES
PCP ``notices'' file used by
.BR pmie (1)
and friends
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.B /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bzip2 (1),
.BR cron (1),
.BR egrep (1),
.BR PCP (1),
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogmerge (1),
.BR pmnewlog (1)
and
.BR pmsocks (1).
