'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMLOGREDUCE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogreduce\f1 \- temporal reduction of Performance Co-Pilot archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogreduce\f1
[\f3\-z\f1]
[\f3\-A\f1 \f2align\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2samples\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-v\f1 \f2volsamples\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
\f2input\f1 \f2output\f1 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogreduce
reads one Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive
identified by
.I input
(this must be a PCP archive created by
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1)
or
.BR pmlogreduce (1)),
and creates a temporally reduced PCP archive in
.IR output .
The 
data reduction involves statistical and temporal reduction of samples with
an output sampling
interval defined by the
.B \-t
option in the
.I output
archive (independent of the sampling intervals in the
.I input
archive), and is further controlled by
other command line arguments.
.PP
For some metrics, temporal data reduction is not going to be helpful,
so for metrics with types
.B PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE
or
.BR PM_TYPE_EVENT ,
a warning is issued if these metrics are found in
.I input
and they will be skipped and not appear in the
.I output
archive.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
The command line options for
.B pmlogreduce
are as follows:
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-A " align"
Specify a ``natural'' alignment of the output sample times; refer
to
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-S " starttime"
Define the start of a time window to restrict the samples retrieved
from the
.I input
archive; refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-s " samples"
The argument
.I samples
defines the number of samples to be written to
.IR output .
If
.I samples
is 0 or
.B -s
is not specified,
.B pmlogreduce
will sample until the end of the PCP archive,
or the end of the time window as specified by
.BR -T ,
whichever comes first.  The
.B -s
option will override the
.B -T
option if it occurs sooner.
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-T " endtime"
Define the termination of a time window to restrict the samples
retrieved from the
.I input
archive; refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-v " volsamples"
The
.I output
archive is potentially a multi-volume data set, and the
.B \-v
option causes
.B pmlogreduce
to start a new volume after
.I volsamples
log records have been written to the
.I output
archive.
.RS 7
.PP
Independent of any
.B \-v
option, each volume of an archive is limited to no more than
2^31 bytes, so
.I pmlogreduce
will automatically create a new volume for the archive before
this limit is reached.
.RE
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-t " interval"
Consecutive samples in the
.I output
archive will appear with a time delta defined by
.IR interval ;
refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1).
Note the default value is 600 (seconds, i.e. 10 minutes).
.PP
.TP 7
.BI \-Z " timezone"
Use
.I timezone
when displaying the date and time, or interpreting the
.B \-S
and
.B \-T
options.
.I Timezone
is in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-z
Use the local timezone of the host from the
.I input
archive when displaying the date and time, or interpreting the
.B \-S
and
.B \-T
options.
The default is to initially use the timezone of the local host.
.SH DATA REDUCTION
.PP
The statistical and temporal reduction follows the following rules:
.TP 4m
1.
Consecutive records from
.I input
are read without interpolation, and at most one output record
is written for each
.IR interval ,
summarizing the performance data over that period.
.TP 4m
2.
If the semantics of a metric indicates it is
.B instantaneous
or
.B discrete
then
.I output
value is computed as the arithmetic mean of the observations (if any)
over each
.IR interval .
.TP 4m
3.
If the semantics of a metric indicates it is a
.B counter
then the following transformations are applied:
.RS +4m
.nr PD 0
.TP 4m
a)
Metrics with 32-bit precision are promoted to 64-bit precision.
.TP 4m
b)
Any counter wrap (overflow) is noted, and appropriate adjustment made
in the value of the metric over each
.IR interval .
This will be correct in the case of a single counter wrap, but will
silently
.B underestimate
in the case where more than one counter wrap occurs between consecutive
observations in the
.I input
archive, and silently
.B overestimate
in the case where a counter is reset occurs between consecutive
observations in the
.I input
archive; unfortunately these situations cannot be detected, but
are believed to be rare events for the sort of production monitoring
environments where
.B pmlogreduce
is most likely to be deployed.
.RE
.PD
.TP 4m
4.
Any changes in instance domains, and indeed all metadata, is preserved.
.TP 4m
5.
Any ``mark'' records in the
.I input
archive (as created by
.BR pmlogextract (1))
will be preserved in the
.I output
archive, so periods where no data is available are maintained, and data
interpolation will
.B not
occur across these periods when the
.I output
archive is subsequently processed with PCP applications.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
For each of the
.I input
and
.I output
archives, several physical files are used.
.TP 10
\f2archive\f3.meta
metadata (metric descriptions, instance domains, etc.) for the archive log
.TP
\f2archive\f3.0
initial volume of metrics values (subsequent volumes have suffixes
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
\&...) \- for
.I input
these files may have been previously compressed with
.BR bzip2 (1)
or
.BR gzip (1)
and thus may have an additional
.B .bz2
or
.B .gz
suffix.
.TP
\f2archive\f3.index
temporal index to support rapid random access to the other files in the
archive log.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmdumplog (1),
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error conditions detected by
.B pmlogreduce
are reported on
.I stderr
with textual (if sometimes terse) explanation.
.PP
Should the
.I input
archive be corrupted (this can happen
if the
.B pmlogger
instance writing the archive suddenly dies), then
.B pmlogreduce
will detect and report the position of the corruption in the file,
and any subsequent information from the
.I input
archive will not be processed.
.PP
If any error is detected,
.B pmlogreduce
will exit with a non-zero status.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
The preamble metrics (pmcd.pmlogger.archive, pmcd.pmlogger.host,
and pmcd.pmlogger.port), which are automatically recorded by
.B pmlogger
at the start of the archive, may not be present in the archive output by
.BR pmlogreduce .
These metrics are only relevant while the archive is being created,
and have no significance once recording has finished.
