'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGCHECK 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogcheck\f1 \- checks for invalid data in a PCP archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogcheck\f1
[\f3\-lmvwz?\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2start\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2finish\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
\f2archive\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogcheck
prints information about the nature of any invalid data which it detects
in the files of a PCP archive.
.PP
The archive has the base name
.I archive
and must have been previously created using
.BR pmlogger (1).
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR
Print the archive label, showing the archive format version,
the time and date for the start and (current) end of the archive, and
the host from which the performance metrics values were collected.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-metadataonly\fR
Skip
.B "Pass 3"
(see below) and only check the archive meta data.
This can run substantially faster in cases where the volume data
doesn't need to be checked, especially on archives with compressed
data volume(s).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space
.RB ( PMNS (5))
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIstarttime\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR=\fIstarttime\fR
Specify the
.I starttime
of time window over which metrics should be checked
in Pass 3 (see below).
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR starttime .
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIendtime\fR, \fB\-\-finish\fR=\fIendtime\fR
Specify the
.I endtime
of time window over which metrics should be checked
in Pass 3 (see below).
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR endtime .
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-nowrap\fR
Suppress reporting of counter wraps.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-hostzone\fR
Use the local timezone of the host that is the source of the
performance metrics archive.
The default is to use the timezone of the local host.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR \fItimezone\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fItimezone\fR
Use
.I timezone
for the date and time.
.I Timezone
is in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
The default is to use the timezone of the local host.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH OPERATION
The checking proceeds in a number of passes, each designed to validate
progressively more complex semantic relationships between the information
in a PCP archive.
.SS Pass 0
Each physical file of the PCP archive is processed to ensure the label
records are valid and consistent, and that each file contains an
integral number of physical records with correct header and trailer
fields.
.PP
Any errors at this stage are usually fatal.
The PCP archive is
probably damaged beyond repair, and no more passes of
.B pmlogcheck
are attempted.
.SS Pass 1
Validates the integrity of the temporal index, usually
.IB archive .index\c
\&.
.PP
As the temporal index is (strictly speaking) optional, errors at this
stage are handled by marking the index as bad and ignoring it for
the remainder of the
.B pmlogcheck
passes.
.PP
Permanent repair can be achieved by removing the temporal index file
and then making a copy of the PCP archive using
.BR pmlogrewrite (1)
or
.BR pmlogextract (1).
This will create a new temporal index for the copied archive as a side-effect.
.SS Pass 2
Validates the integrity of the metadata file, usually
.IB archive .meta\c
\&.
.SS Pass 3
Validates the integrity of each of the volumes of the PCP archive, usually
.IB archive .0\c
,
.IB archive .1\c
, etc.
.PP
There is some basic integrity checks to ensure the encoding of
values for each metric remains consistent and the values are well formed
across all the observations in the archive.
.PP
Also the timestamps for the observations are expected to be
monotonically increasing as the archive is tranversed.
.PP
Additional attention is given to
counter metrics (\c
.I type
from
.BR pmLookupDesc (3)
is
.BR PM_SEM_COUNTER )
which are expected to have monotonically increasing values.
If the values are not monotonic increasing this may suggest
a counter wrap has happened or there has been some interruption
or reset to
the underlying source of the performance data that is no captured in
the archive.
.PP
For each counter metric which has been detected as having wrapped at some
point in the archive,
.B pmlogcheck
produces output describing the metric name (with instance identifiers where
appropriate), the internal storage type for the metric, the value of the
metric before the counter wrap (with its associated timestamp), and the value of
the metric after the wrap (also with a timestamp).
.PP
The
.B \-w
option may be used to suppress reporting of counter wraps.
.PP
.B pmlogcheck
produces two different timestamp formats, depending on the interval over
which it is run.
For an interval greater than 24 hours, the date is displayed
in addition to the time at which the counter wrap occurred.
If the extent of the data being checked is less than 24 hours, a more
precise format is used (time is displayed with millisecond precision, but
without the date).
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/*
default PMNS specification files
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/<hostname>
default directory for PCP archives containing performance data collected
from the host
.IR hostname .
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmdumplog (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogrewrite (1),
.BR pmlogsummary (1),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
