'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGPASTE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogpaste\f1 \- paste text into a metric in a PCP archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogpaste\f1
[\f3\-?\f1]
[\f3\-f\f1 \f2file\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2hostname\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2label\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2metric\f1]
[\f3\-o\f1 \f2outfile\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogpaste
takes input text from a file or the command line, and writes it as
a metric value in a new PCP archive.
This metric value is timestamped with the current time, and is stored
as a string type metric.
.PP
The main purpose of this tool is to take captured output and preserve
this in a PCP archive.
This allows, for example, the output of a benchmark run to be stored
along with performance metrics captured during that run, in a single
archive.
Archives can be merged using the
.BR pmlogextract (1)
utility.
.PP
.B pmlogpaste
uses the
.BR LOGIMPORT (3)
library interfaces internally, which support the creation of archives
from external sources of performance data.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-f\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR=\fIfile\fR
File with input text to be archived, or ``-'' for standard input.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhostname\fR, \fB\-\-hostname\fR=\fIhostname\fR
Source host name for the archive.
The default value is the local host name, or ``localhost''
if that cannot be obtained.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIlabel\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR=\fIlabel\fR
Add context labels to the generated archive.
This option can be presented multiple times to produce multiple
labels in the archive.
The
.I label
should be in the form
.IR name:value .
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fImetric\fR, \fB\-\-metric\fR=\fImetric\fR
Metric name for the archive.
The default metric name is
.IR paste.value .
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIoutfile\fR, \fB\-\-outfile\fR=\fIoutfile\fR
Archive output file.
The default archive name is
.IR paste .
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fItimezone\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fItimezone\fR
Source timezone for the archive archive.
The default value is the local timezone.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1)
and
.BR LOGIMPORT (3).
