'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGSUMMARY 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogsummary\f1 \- calculate averages of metrics stored in a set of PCP archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogsummary\f1
[\f3\-abfFHiIlmMNsvVxyz?\f1]
[\f3\-B\f1 \f2nbins\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2precision\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
\f2archive\f1
[\f2metricname\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogsummary
prints statistical information about metrics of numeric type contained within
the files of a set of Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archives.
The default output prints time averages for both counter and non-counter metrics.
The set of archives is identified by
.IR archive ,
which is a comma-separated list of names, each
of which may be the base name of an archive or the name of a directory containing
one or more archives.
The archives are typically created using
.BR pmlogger (1).
.PP
The metrics of interest are named in the
.I metricname
arguments.
If
.I metricname
is a non-leaf node in the Performance Metrics Name Space (\c
.BR PMNS (5)),
then
.B pmlogsummary
will recursively descend the PMNS and report on all leaf nodes.
If no
.I metricname
argument is given, the root of the namespace is used.
.PP
Metrics with counter semantics are converted to rates before being
evaluated.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Print all information.
This is equivalent to
.BR \-blmMy .
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Print both forms of averaging, that is both stochastic and time averaging.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fInbins\fR, \fB\-\-bins\fR=\fInbins\fR
Print the approximate distribution of values, using histogram bins such
that the value range (minimum - maximum) for each metric is divided
equally into
.I nbins
bins, and each bin accumulates the frequency of observed values in the
corresponding range.
Refer to the ``OUTPUT FORMAT'' section below for a description of how the
distribution of values is reported).
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Spreadsheet format \- the tab character is used to delimit each field
printed.
This option is intended to allow
.B pmlogsummary
output to be imported directly into common spreadsheet applications.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
Spreadsheet format \- the comma character is used to delimit each field
printed.
This option is intended to allow
.B pmlogsummary
output to be imported directly into common spreadsheet applications which
support the Comma Separated Value (.csv) format.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-header\fR
Print a one-line header at the start showing what each field represents.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-mintime\fR
Also print the time at which the minimum value was logged.
The format of this
timestamp is described in the ``OUTPUT FORMAT'' section below.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-maxtime\fR
Also print the time at which the maximum value was logged.
The format of this
timestamp is described in the ``OUTPUT FORMAT'' section below.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR
Also print the archive label, showing the archive format version,
the time and date for the start and end of the archive time window,
and the host from which the performance metrics values were collected.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-minimum\fR
Also print the minimum logged value for each metric.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-maximum\fR
Also print the maximum logged value for each metric.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space
.RB ( PMNS (5))
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-N\fR
Suppress any warnings resulting from individual archive fetches (default).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIprecision\fR, \fB\-\-precision\fR=\fIprecision\fR
Print all floating point numbers with
.I precision
digits after the decimal place.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sum\fR
Print (only) the sum of all logged values for each metric.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIstarttime\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR=\fIstarttime\fR
Set the
.I starttime
of the time window.
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR starttime .
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIendtime\fR, \fB\-\-finish\fR=\fIendtime\fR
Set the
.I endtime
of the time window.
Refer to
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for a complete description of the syntax for
.IR endtime .
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Report (verbosely) on warnings resulting from individual archive fetches.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Print stochastic averages instead of the default (time averages).
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-samples\fR
Also print the number of samples encountered in the set of archives for each metric.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-hostzone\fR
Change the timezone to the local timezone at the
host that is the source of the performance metrics, as specified in
the label record of the archive.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR \fItimezone\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fItimezone\fR
By default,
.B pmlogsummary
reports the time of day according to the local timezone on the
system where
.B pmlogsummary
is run.
Change the timezone to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (7).
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The
.B pmlogsummary
output format is spartan as it is intended to be post-processed with
standard tools.
This means that there is no annotation associated with each
output field which would make processing harder.
The intention is that
.B pmlogsummary
output be massaged into a format which can be used by a spreadsheet program,
is suitable for inclusion in a web page, or whatever.
.PP
For each metric,
.B pmlogsummary
produces a single output line as follows:
.PP
.in 1.0i
.ft CW
.nf
\f2metricname\f1  \f2value(s)\f1 \f2units\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
For metrics with multiple instances,
.B pmlogsummary
produces multiple lines of output as follows:
.PP
.in 1.0i
.ft CW
.nf
\f2metricname\f1 ["\f2instance 1\f1"] \f2value(s)\f1 \f2units\f1
\f2metricname\f1 ["\f2instance 2\f1"] \f2value(s)\f1 \f2units\f1
\f2metricname\f1 ["\f2instance N\f1"] \f2value(s)\f1 \f2units\f1
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
The printed \f2value(s)\f1 for each metric always follow this order:
stochastic average, time average, minimum, minimum timestamp, maximum,
maximum timestamp, count, [bin 1 range], bin 1 count, ... [bin
.I nbins
range], bin
.I nbins
count.
The individual values for each metric are space-separated (unless the
.B \-f
option is used).
.PP
All counter metrics which are measured in units of time will be converted
to seconds before being rate converted and used in the
.B pmlogsummary
calculations.
The values calculated for these metrics are also printed in seconds.
.PP
The units will be displayed in the format described by
.BR pmUnitsStr (3).
.PP
Given either of the
.B -i
or
.B -I
options,
.B pmlogsummary
produces two different timestamp formats, depending on the
interval over which it is run.
For an interval greater than 24 hours, the date is displayed in addition
to the time at which the maxima and/or minima occurred.
If the extent of the data being checked is less than 24 hours,
a more precise format is used (time is displayed with millisecond
precision, but without the date).
.SH NOTES
The average for an individual metric is calculated as follows:
.PP
Non-counter metrics are averaged using stochastic averaging -
each observation has an equal weighting towards
the calculation of the average (the sum of all values divided
by the total number of values, for each metric).
.PP
Counter metrics are averaged using time averaging (by default),
but the
.B \-x
option can be used to specify that counters be averaged using
the stochastic method instead.
When calculating a time average,
the sum of the product of each sample value multiplied by the time difference
between each sample, is divided by the total time over which
that metric was logged.
.PP
Counter metrics whose measurements do not span 90% of the set of archives will be
printed with the metric name prefixed by an asterisk (*).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ pmlogsummary \-aN \-p 1 \-B 3 surf network.interface.out.bytes
Log Label (Log Format Version 1)
Performance metrics from host www.sgi.com
  commencing Tue Jan 14 20:50:50.317 1997
  ending     Wed Jan 29 10:13:07.387 1997
network.interface.out.bytes ["xpi0"] 202831.3 202062.5 20618.7 \e
	1235067.7 971 [<=425435.0] 912 [<=830251.4] 42 [<=1235067.7] \e
	17 byte / sec
network.interface.out.bytes ["xpi1"] 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1033 [<=0.0] \e
	1033 [] 0 [] 0 byte / sec
network.interface.out.bytes ["et0"] 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1033 [<=0.0] \e
	1033 [] 0 [] 0 byte / sec
network.interface.out.bytes ["lo0"] 899.0 895.2 142.6 9583.1 1031 \e
	[<=3289.4] 1027 [<=6436.2] 3 [<=9583.1] 1 byte / sec
.fi
.sp
A description of each field in the first line of statistical output, which
describes one instance of the network.interface.out.bytes metric,
follows:
.TS
box,center;
cf(R) | cf(R)
lf(CW) | lf(R).
Field	Meaning
_
["xpi0"]	instance name
202831.3	stochastic average
202062.5	time average
20618.7	minimum value
1235067.7	maximum value
971	total number of values for this instance
[<=425435.0]	range for first bin  (20618.7-425435.0)
912	number of values in first bin
[<=830251.4]	range for second bin  (425435.0-830251.4)
42	number of values in second bin
[<=1235067.7]	range for third bin  (830251.4-1235067.7)
17	number of values in third bin
byte / sec	base units for this metric
.TE
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/*
default PMNS specification files
.TP
.I $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/<hostname>
Default directory for PCP archives containing performance
metric values collected from the host
.IR <hostname> .
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmdumptext (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmrep (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmUnitsStr (3)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
