'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2019 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMLOGGER_MERGE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogger_merge\f1 \- helper script to merge Performance Co-Pilot archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogger_merge
[\f3\-fNVE?\f1]
[\f2input-basename\f1 ... \f2output-name\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogger_merge
is a helper script that is used by
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
when merging all of the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
archives for a single host on a single day
into a combined PCP archive.
.PP
.B pmlogger_merge
is a wrapper script for
.BR pmlogextract (1)
that merges all of the archives matching the
.I input-basename
arguments and creates a new archive using
.I output-name
as the base name for the physical files that constitute
an archive.
The
.I input-basename
arguments may contain meta characters in the style of
.BR sh (1).
.PP
If any of the files that are components of the
.I input-basename
archives has been compressed then on success
.B pmlogger_merge
will compress
.I output-name
using
.BR pmlogcompress (1).
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This option causes all of the input files to be removed once the output
archive has been created.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-showme\fR
Runs
.B pmlogger_merge
in a ``show me'' or ``dry run'' mode where the
tasks that would be performed are reported, but no changes are made.
This is typically used for debugging in combination with one (verbose)
or two (very verbose)
.B \-V
options.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase verbosity in the output progress report.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expunge\fR
When metric metadata differences are encountered between archives to be merged,
the default behaviour is for
.B pmlogger_merge
to fail with a fatal error and the \f2output-name\f1 archive is not created.
The
.B \-E
flag instead issues a warning and excludes the affected metrics from the merged
output archive.
This is intended for automated daily archive rotation where it is highly desirable
for unattended daily archive merging, rewriting and compression to succeed.
See also
.BR pmlogger_daily (1)
and the
.B \-x
flag to
.BR pmlogextract (1).
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmlogcompress (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmlogger (1)
and
.BR pmlogger_daily (1).
