'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMLOGREWRITE 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogrewrite\f1 \- rewrite Performance Co-Pilot archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmlogrewrite\f1
[\f3\-Cdiqsvw \f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2config\f1]
\f2inlog\f1 [\f2outlog\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de KW
\\f(BI\\$1\\fP\\$2
..
.B pmlogrewrite
reads a set of Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive logs
identified by
.I inlog
and creates a PCP archive log in
.IR outlog .
Under normal usage, the
.B \-c
option will be used to nominate a configuration file or files
that contains specifications (see the
.B "REWRITING RULES SYNTAX"
section below)
that describe how the data and metadata from
.I inlog
should be transformed to produce
.IR outlog .
.PP
The typical uses for
.B pmlogrewrite
would be to accommodate the evolution of Performance Metric Domain Agents
(PMDAs) where the names, metadata and semantics of metrics and their associated
instance domains may change over time, e.g. promoting the type of a metric
from a 32-bit to a 64-bit integer, or renaming a group of metrics.
Refer to the
.B EXAMPLES
section for some additional use cases.
.PP
.B pmlogrewrite
is most useful where PMDA changes, or errors in the production environment,
result in archives that cannot be combined with
.BR pmlogextract (1).
By pre-processing the archives with
.B pmlogrewrite
the resulting archives may be able to be merged with
.BR pmlogextract (1).
.PP
The input
.I inlog
must be a set of PCP archive logs
created by
.BR pmlogger (1),
or possibly one of the tools that read and create PCP archives, e.g.
.BR pmlogextract (1)
and
.BR pmlogreduce (1).
.I inlog
is a comma-separated list of names, each
of which may be the base name of an archive or the name of a directory containing
one or more archives.
.PP
If no
.B \-c
option is specified, then the default behavior simply creates
.I outlog
as a copy of
.IR inlog .
This is a little more complicated than
.BR cat (1),
as each PCP archive is made up of several physical files.
.PP
While
.B pmlogrewrite
may be used to repair some data consistency issues in PCP archives,
there is also a class of repair tasks that cannot be handled by
.B pmlogrewrite
and
.BR pmloglabel (1)
may be a useful tool in these cases.
.SH OPTIONS
The command line options for
.B pmlogrewrite
are as follows:
.TP 7
.B \-C
Parse the rewriting rules and quit.
.I outlog
is not created.
When
.B \-C
is specified, this also sets
.B \-v
and
.B \-w
so that all warnings and verbose messages are displayed as
.I config
is parsed.
.TP 7
.BI \-c " config"
If
.I config
is a file or symbolic link,
read and parse rewriting rules from there.
If
.I config
is a directory, then all of the files or symbolic links in that
directory (excluding those beginning with a period ``.'') will
be used to provide the rewriting rules.
Multiple
.B \-c
options are allowed.
.TP 7
.B \-d
Desperate mode.  Normally if a fatal error occurs, all trace of
the partially written PCP archive
.I outlog
is removed.  With the
.B \-d
option, the partially created
.I outlog
archive log is not removed.
.TP 7
.B \-i
Rather than creating
.IR outlog ,
.I inlog
is rewritten in place when the
.B \-i
option is used.
A new archive is created using temporary file names and then renamed to 
.I inlog
in such a way that
if any errors (not warnings) are encountered,
.I inlog
remains unaltered.
.TP 7
.B \-q
Quick mode, where if there are no rewriting actions to be
performed (none of the global data, instance domains or metrics
from
.I inlog
will be changed), then
.B pmlogrewrite
will exit (with status 0, so success) immediately after parsing
the configuration file(s) and
.I outlog
is not created.
.TP 7
.B \-s
When the ``units'' of a metric are changed, if the dimension in terms
of space, time and count is unaltered, then the scaling factor is being changed,
e.g. BYTE to KBYTE, or MSEC\u\s-3-1\s0\d to USEC\u\s-3-1\s0\d, or the
composite MBYTE.SEC\u\s-3-1\s0\d to KBYTE.USEC\u\s-3-1\s0\d.
The
motivation may be (a) that the original metadata was wrong but the
values in
.I inlog
are correct, or (b) the metadata is changing so the values need
to change as well.  The default
.B pmlogrewrite
behaviour matches case (a).  If case (b) applies, then use the
.B \-s
option and the values of all the
metrics with a scale factor change in each result will be rescaled.
For finer control over value rescaling refer to
the
.KW RESCALE
option for the
.KW UNITS
clause of the metric rewriting rule described below.
.TP 7
.BI \-v
Increase verbosity of diagnostic output.
.TP 7
.BI \-w
Emit warnings.  Normally
.B pmlogrewrite
remains silent for any warning that is not fatal and
it is expected that for a particular archive, some (or indeed, all)
of the rewriting specifications may not apply.  For example, changes to
a PMDA may be captured in a set of rewriting rules, but a single archive
may not contain all of the modified metrics nor all of the modified
instance domains and/or instances.  Because these cases are expected,
they do not prevent
.B pmlogrewrite
executing, and rules that do not apply to
.I inlog
are silently ignored by default.
Similarly, some rewriting rules may involve no change because
the metadata in
.I inlog
already matches the intent of the rewriting rule to correct data
from a previous version of a PMDA.
The
.B \-w
flag forces warnings to be emitted for all of these cases.
.PP
The argument
.I outlog
is required in all cases, except when
.B \-i
is specified.
.SH REWRITING RULES SYNTAX
A configuration file
contains zero or more rewriting rules as defined below.
.PP
Keywords and special punctuation characters are shown below in
.KW bolditalic
font and are case-insensitive, so
.KW METRIC ,
.KW metric
and
.KW Metric
are all equivalent in rewriting rules.
.PP
The character ``#'' introduces
a comment and the remainder of the line is ignored.  Otherwise the
input is relatively free format with optional white space (spaces, tabs or
newlines) between lexical items in the rules.
.PP
A
.B global
rewriting rule has the form:
.PP
.KW GLOBAL
.KW {
.I globalspec
\&...
.KW }
.PP
where
.I globalspec
is zero or more of the following clauses:
.RS +4n
.PP
.KW HOSTNAME
.KW ->
.I hostname
.RS +4n
.PP
Modifies the label records in the
.I outlog
PCP archive, so that the metrics will appear to have
been collected from the host
.IR hostname .
.RE
.PP
.KW TIME
.KW ->
.I delta
.RS +4n
.PP
Both metric values and the instance domain metadata in a PCP
archive carry timestamps.
This clause forces all the timestamps to be adjusted by
.IR delta ,
where
.I delta
is an optional sign ``+'' (the default) or ``\-'', an optional number of
hours followed by a colon ``:'', an optional number of minutes followed by a 
colon ``:'', a number of seconds, an optional fraction of seconds following
a period ``.''.  The simplest example would be ``30'' to increase the
timestamps by 30 seconds.  A more complex example would be ``\-23:59:59.999''
to move the timestamps backwards by one millisecond less than one day.
.RE
.PP
.KW TZ
.KW ->
\f(BI"\fP\fItimezone\fP\f(BI"\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Modifies the label records in the
.I outlog
PCP archive, so that the metrics will appear to have been
collected from a host with a local timezone of
.IR timezone .
.I timezone
must be enclosed in quotes, and should conform to the valid
timezone syntax rules for the local platform.
.RE
.RE
.PP
An
.B indom
rewriting rule modifies an instance domain and has the form:
.PP
.KW INDOM
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP
.KW {
.I indomspec
\&...
.KW }
.PP
where
.I domain
and
.I serial
identify one or more existing instance domains from
.I inlog
\- typically
.I domain
would be an integer in the range 1 to 510
and
.I serial
would be an integer in the range 0 to 4194304.
.PP
As a special
case
.I serial
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means the rule applies to every
instance domain with a domain number of
.IR domain .
.PP
If a designated instance domain is not in
.I inlog
the rule has no effect.
.PP
The
.I indomspec
is zero or more of the following clauses:
.RS +4n
.PP
.KW INAME
"\fIoldname\fP"
.KW ->
"\fInewname\fP"
.RS +4n
.PP
The instance identified by the external instance name
.I oldname
is renamed to
.IR newname .
Both
.I oldname
and
.I newname
must be enclosed in quotes.
.PP
As a special case, the new name may be the keyword
.KW DELETE
(with no quotes), and then the instance
.I oldname
will be expunged from
.I outlog
which removes it from the instance domain metadata and removes all
values of this instance for all the associated metrics.
.PP
If the instance names contain any embedded
spaces then special care needs to be taken in respect of the
PCP instance naming rule that treats the leading non-space
part of the instance name as the unique portion of the name for
the purposes of matching and ensuring uniqueness within an
instance domain, refer to
.BR pmdaInstance (3)
for a discussion of this issue.
.PP
As an illustration, consider the hypothetical instance domain for a metric
which contains 2 instances with the following names:
.RS +4
.ft CW
.nf
red
eek urk
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.PP
Then some possible
.KW INAME
clauses might be:
.TP +10n
\f(CW"eek" -> "yellow like a flower"\fP
Acceptable,
.I oldname
"eek" matches the "eek urk" instance.
.TP +10n
\f(CW"red" -> "eek"\fP
Error,
.I newname
"eek" matches the existing "eek urk"
instance.
.TP +10n
\f(CW"eek urk" -> "red of another hue"\fP
Error,
.I newname
"red of another hue" matches the existing "red"
instance.
.RE
.PP
.KW INDOM
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Modifies the metadata for the instance domain and every metric associated
with the instance domain.
As a special case,
.I newserial
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I serial
from the 
.B indom
rewriting rule, although this is most useful when
.I serial
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
indom 29.* { indom -> 109.* }
.ft P
.RE
will move all instance domains from domain 29 to domain 109.
.RE
.PP
.KW INDOM
.KW ->
.KW DUPLICATE
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
A special case of the previous
.KW INDOM
clause where the instance domain is a duplicate copy of the
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP instance domain from the
.I indom
rewriting rule, and then any
mapping rules are applied to the copied
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP instance domain.  This is
useful when a PMDA is split and the same instance domain needs to
be replicated for domain \fIdomain\fP and domain \fInewdomain\fP.
So for example if the metrics
.I foo.one
and
.I foo.two
are both defined over instance domain 12.34, and
.I foo.two
is moved to another PMDA using domain 27, then the
following rewriting rules could be used:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
indom 12.34 { indom -> duplicate 27.34 }
.br
metric foo.two { indom -> 27.34 pmid -> 27.*.*  }
.ft P
.RE
.RE
.PP
.KW INST
\fIoldid\fP
.KW ->
\fInewid\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
The instance identified by the internal instance identifier
.I oldid
is renumbered to
.IR newid .
Both
.I oldid
and
.I newid
are integers in the range 0 to 2\u\s-331\s0\d-1.
.PP
As a special case,
.I newid
may be the keyword
.KW DELETE
and then the instance
.I oldid
will be expunged from
.I outlog
which removes it from the instance domain metadata and removes all
values of this instance for all the associated metrics.
.RE
.RE
.PP
A
.B metric
rewriting rule has the form:
.PP
.KW METRIC
.I metricid
.KW {
.I metricspec
\&...
.KW }
.PP
where
.I metricid
identifies one or more existing metrics from
.I inlog
using either a metric name, or the internal encoding for a metric's PMID as
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIcluster\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIitem\fP.
In the latter case, typically
.I domain
would be an integer in the range 1 to 510,
.I cluster
would be an integer in the range 0 to 4095,
and
.I item
would be an integer in the range 0 to 1023.
.PP
As special
cases
.I item
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means the rule applies to every
metric with a domain number of
.I domain
and a cluster number of
.IR cluster ,
or
.I cluster
could be an asterisk which means the rule applies to every
metric with a domain number of
.I domain
and an item number of
.IR item ,
or both
.I cluster
and
.I item
could be asterisks, and rule applies to every metric with a domain
number of
.IR domain .
.PP
If a designated metric is not in
.I inlog
the rule has no effect.
.PP
The
.I metricspec
is zero or more of the following clauses:
.RS +4n

.PP
.KW DELETE
.RS +4n
.PP
The metric is completely removed from
.IR outlog ,
both the metadata and all values in results are expunged.
.RE

.PP
.KW INDOM
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP [
.I pick
]
.RS +4n
.PP
Modifies the metadata to change the instance domain for this metric.
The new instance domain must exist in
.IR outlog .
.PP
The optional
.I pick
clause may be used to select one input value, or compute an aggregate
value from the instances in an input result, or assign an internal
instance identifier to a single output value.
If no
.I pick
clause is specified, the default behaviour is to copy all input values
from each input result to
an output result, however if the input instance domain is singular
(indom
.BR PM_INDOM_NULL )
then the one output value must be assigned an internal instance
identifier, which is 0 by default, unless over-ridden by a
.KW INST
or
.KW INAME
clause as defined below.
.PP
The choices for
.I pick
are as follows:
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT FIRST\fP
choose the value of the first instance from each input result
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT LAST\fP
choose the value of the last instance from each input result
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT INST\fP \fIinstid\fP
choose the value of the instance with internal instance identifier
.I instid
from each result; the sequence of rewriting rules ensures the
.KW OUTPUT
processing happens before instance identifier renumbering
from any associated
.B indom
rule, so
.I instid
should be one of the internal instance identifiers that appears in
.I inlog
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT INAME\fP "\fIname\fP"
choose the value of the instance with
.I name
for its external instance name
from each result; the sequence of rewriting rules ensures the
.KW OUTPUT 
processing happens before instance renaming
from any associated
.B indom
rule, so
.I name
should be one of the external instance names that appears in
.I inlog
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT MIN\fP
choose the smallest value in each result (metric type must be numeric
and output instance will be 0 for a non-singular instance domain)
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT MAX\fP
choose the largest value in each result (metric type must be numeric
and output instance will be 0 for a non-singular instance domain)
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT SUM\fP
choose the sum of all values in each result (metric type must be numeric
and output instance will be 0 for a non-singular instance domain)
.TP +12n
\f(BIOUTPUT AVG\fP
choose the average of all values in each result (metric type must be numeric
and output instance will be 0 for a non-singular instance domain)
.PP
If the input instance domain is singular
(indom
.BR PM_INDOM_NULL )
then independent of any
.I pick
specifications, there is at most one value in each input result and
so
.KW FIRST ,
.KW LAST ,
.KW MIN ,
.KW MAX ,
.KW SUM
and
.KW AVG
are all equivalent and the output instance identifier will be 0.
.PP
In general it is an error to specify a rewriting action for the
same metadata or result values more than once, e.g. more than one
.KW INDOM
clause for the same instance domain.  The one exception is the possible
interaction between the
.KW INDOM
clauses in the
.B indom
and
.B metric
rules.
For example the metric
.I sample.bin
is defined over the instance domain 29.2 in
.I inlog
and the following is acceptable (albeit redundant):
.RS +4n
.ft CW
.nf
indom 29.* { indom -> 109.* }
metric sample.bin { indom -> 109.2 }
.fi
.ft P
.RE
However the following is an error, because the instance domain for
.I sample.bin
has two conflicting definitions:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
.nf
indom 29.* { indom -> 109.* }
metric sample.bin { indom -> 123.2 }
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.RE

.PP
.KW INDOM
.KW ->
.KW NULL [
.I pick
]
.RS +4n
.PP
The metric (which must have been
previously defined over an instance domain) is being modified to
be a singular metric.  This involves a metadata change and collapsing
all results for this metric so that multiple values become one value.
.PP
The optional
.I pick
part of the clause defines how the one value for each result
should be calculated and follows the same rules as described for the
non-NULL
.KW INDOM
case above.
.PP
In the absence of
.IR pick ,
the default is
.KW "OUTPUT FIRST" .
.RE

.PP
.KW NAME
.KW ->
.I newname
.RS +4n
.PP
Renames the metric in the PCP archive's metadata that supports
the Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS).
.I newname
should not match any existing name in the archive's PMNS and must
follow the syntactic rules for valid metric names as outlined in
.BR pmns (5).
.RE

.PP
.KW PMID
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewcluster\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewitem\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Modifies the metadata and results to renumber the metric's PMID.
As special cases,
.I newcluster
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I cluster
from the 
.B metric
rewriting rule and/or
.I item
could be an asterisk which means use
.I item
from the 
.B metric
rewriting rule.
This is most useful when
.I cluster
and/or
.I item
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
metric 30.*.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
.ft P
.RE
will move all metrics from domain 30 to domain 123.
.RE

.PP
.KW SEM
.KW ->
.I newsem
.RS +4n
.PP
Change the semantics of the metric.
.I newsem
should be the XXX part of the name of one of the
.B PM_SEM_XXX
macros defined in <pcp/pmapi.h> or
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
e.g.
.KW COUNTER
for
.BR PM_TYPE_COUNTER .
.PP
No data value rewriting is performed as a result of the
.KW SEM
clause, so the usefulness
is limited to cases where a version of the associated
PMDA was exporting incorrect semantics for the metric.
.BR pmlogreduce (1)
may provide an alternative in cases where re-computation of result
values is desired.
.RE

.PP
.KW TYPE
.KW ->
.I newtype
.RS +4n
.PP
Change the type of the metric which alters the metadata and may change the
encoding of values in results.
.I newtype
should be the XXX part of the name of one of the
.B PM_TYPE_XXX
macros defined in <pcp/pmapi.h> or
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
e.g.
.KW FLOAT
for
.BR PM_TYPE_FLOAT .
.PP
Type conversion is only supported for cases where the old and new
metric type is numeric, so
.BR PM_TYPE_STRING ,
.B PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE
and
.B PM_TYPE_EVENT
are not allowed.
Even for the numeric cases, some conversions may produce run-time errors,
e.g. integer overflow, or attempting to rewrite a negative value into
an unsigned type.
.RE

.PP
.KW TYPE
.KW IF
.I oldtype
.KW ->
.I newtype
.RS +4n
.PP
The same as the preceding
.KW TYPE
clause, except the type of the metric is only changed to
.I newtype
if the type of the metric in
.I inlog
is
.I oldtype.
.PP
This useful in cases where the type of
.I metricid
in
.I inlog
may be platform dependent and so more than one type rewriting rule is
required.
.RE

.PP
.KW UNITS
.KW ->
.I newunits
[
.KW RESCALE
]
.RS +4n
.PP
.I newunits
is six values separated by commas.  The first 3 values describe the
dimension of the metric along the dimensions of space, time and count; these
are integer values, usually 0, 1 or \-1.  The remaining 3 values describe
the scale of the metric's values in the dimensions of space, time and
count.
Space scale values should be 0 (if the space dimension is 0), else
the XXX part of the name of one of the
.B PM_SPACE_XXX
macros, e.g.
.KW KBYTE
for
.BR PM_TYPE_KBYTE .
Time scale values should be 0 (if the time dimension is 0), else
the XXX part of the name of one of the
.B PM_TIME_XXX
macros, e.g.
.KW SEC
for
.BR PM_TIME_SEC .
Count scale values should be 0 (if the time dimension is 0), else
.KW ONE
for
.BR PM_COUNT_ONE .
.PP
The
.BR PM_SPACE_XXX ,
.B PM_TIME_XXX
and
.B PM_COUNT_XXX
macros are defined in <pcp/pmapi.h> or
.BR pmLookupDesc (3).
.PP
When the scale is changed (but the dimension is
unaltered) the optional keyword
.KW RESCALE
may be used to chose value rescaling as per the
.B \-s
command line option, but applied to just this metric.
.RE

.PP
When changing the domain number for a metric or instance domain,
the new domain number will usually match an existing PMDA's domain
number.  If this is not the case, then the new domain number
should not be randomly chosen; consult
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/stdpmid
for domain numbers that are already assigned to PMDAs.
.RE
.PP
A
.B text
rewriting rule modifies a help text record and has the form:
.PP
.KW TEXT
\fItextid\fP [
\fItexttype\fP
]
[
"\fItextcontent\fP"
]
.KW {
.I textspec
\&...
.KW }
.PP
where \fItextid\fP identifies the metric or instance domain with which the text is currently associated, and is either
.KW METRIC
\fImetricid\fP
or
.KW INDOM
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP.
.PP
\fImetricid\fP has the same form and meaning as for a \f(BIMETRIC\fP rewriting rule (see above) and
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP
has the same form and meaning as for an \f(BIINDOM\fP rewriting rule (see above).
.PP
The optional \fItexttype\fP identifies the type of text and may be one of
.KW ONELINE
to select the one line help text,
.KW HELP
to select the full help text, or
.KW ALL
or an asterisk ``*''
to select both types of help text.
If \fItexttype\fP is not specified, then the default is
.KW ONELINE .
.PP
The optional \fItextcontent\fP further restricts the selected text records to
those containing the specified content. Characters such as double quotes
may be escaped by preceding them with a backslash ``\\''.
.PP
If a designated help text record is not in
.I inlog
the rule has no effect.
.PP
The
.I textspec
is zero or more of the following clauses:
.RS +4n
.PP
.KW DELETE
.RS +4n
.PP
The selected text is completely removed from \fIoutlog\fP.
.RE
.PP
.KW INDOM
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Reassociates the text with the specified instance domain.
As a special case,
.I newserial
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I serial
from the 
.B text
rewriting rule, although this is most useful when
.I serial
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
text indom 29.* all { indom -> 109.* }
.ft P
.RE
will reassociate all text associated with instance domains from domain 29 to domain 109.
.RE
.PP
.KW METRIC
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewcluster\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewitem\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Reassociates the text with the specified metric.
As special cases,
.I newcluster
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I cluster
from the 
.B text
rewriting rule and/or
.I item
could be an asterisk which means use
.I item
from the 
.B text
rewriting rule.
This is most useful when
.I cluster
and/or
.I item
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
text metric 30.*.* all { metric -> 123.*.* }
.ft P
.RE
will reassociate all text associated with metrics from domain 30 to domain 123.
.RE
.PP
.KW TEXT
.KW ->
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-text\fP\f(BI"\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Replaces the content of the selected text with \fInew-text\fP.
.RE
.RE
.PP
A
.B label
rewriting rule modifies a label record and has the form:
.PP
.KW LABEL
\fIlabelid\fP
[ \fIinstance\fP ]
[ \f(BI"\fP\fIlabel-name\fP\f(BI"\fP ]
[ \f(BI"\fP\fIlabel-value\fP\f(BI"\fP ]
.KW {
.I labelspec
\&...
.KW }
.PP
where \fIlabelid\fP refers to the global context or identifies the metric domain, metric cluster,
metric item, instance domain, or instance domain instances with which the label is currently
associated, and is either
.KW CONTEXT
or
.KW DOMAIN
\fIdomainid\fP
or
.KW CLUSTER
\fIdomainid\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIclusterid\fP
or
.KW ITEM
\fImetricid\fP
or
.KW INDOM
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP
or
.KW INSTANCES
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP.
.PP
\fImetricid\fP has the same form and meaning as for a \f(BIMETRIC\fP rewriting rule (see above).
\fIclusterid\fP may be an asterisk ``*''
which means the rule applies to every
metric with a domain number of
.I domainid
in the same way as an asterisk may be used for the cluster within \fImetricid\fP.
.PP
\fIdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fIserial\fP
has the same form and meaning as for an \f(BIINDOM\fP rewriting rule (see above).
.PP
In the case of an
.KW INSTANCES
\fIlabelid\fP, the name or number of a specific instance may be optionally
specified as
\fIinstance\fP.
This name or number number may be omitted or specified as an asterisk ``*'' to indicate that
labels for all instances of the specified instance domain are selected.
If an instance name is specified, it must be within double quotes.
If the instance name contains any embedded
spaces then special care needs to be taken in respect of the
PCP instance naming rule that treats the leading non-space
part of the instance name as the unique portion of the name for
the purposes of matching and ensuring uniqueness within an
instance domain, refer to
.BR pmdaInstance (3)
for a discussion of this issue.
.PP
In all cases, a \f(BI"\fP\fIlabel-name\fP\f(BI"\fP and/or a
\f(BI"\fP\fIlabel-value\fP\f(BI"\fP may be optionally specified
in double quotes in order to select labels with the given name and/or
given value. These may individually be omitted or specified as
asterisks ``*'' to indicate that labels with all names and/or values are
selected.
.PP
If a designated label record is not in
.I inlog
the rule has no effect.
.PP
The
.I labelspec
is zero or more of the following clauses:
.RS +4n
.PP
.KW DELETE
.RS +4n
.PP
The selected labels are completely removed from \fIoutlog\fP.
.RE
.PP
.KW NEW
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-name\fP\f(BI"\fP
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-value\fP\f(BI"\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
A new label with the name \f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-name\fP\f(BI"\fP and the value
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-value\fP\f(BI"\fP is created and associated with the
specified \fIlabelid\fP and optional \fIinstance\fP (in the case of a
.KW INSTANCES
\fIlabelid\fP). If \f(BI"\fP\fIlabel-name\fP\f(BI"\fP or
\f(BI"\fP\fIlabel-value\fP\f(BI"\fP were specified, then they are ignored
with a warning. If \fIinstance\fP is not specified for an 
.KW INSTANCES
\fIlabelid\fP, then a new label will be created for each instance in the
specified instance domain.
.RE
.PP
.KW LABEL
.KW ->
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-name\fP\f(BI"\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
The name of the selected label(s) is changed to
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-name\fP\f(BI"\fP.
.RE
.PP
.KW VALUE
.KW ->
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-value\fP\f(BI"\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
The value of the selected label(s) is changed to
\f(BI"\fP\fInew-label-value\fP\f(BI"\fP.
.RE
.PP
.KW DOMAIN
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Reassociates the selected label(s) with the specified metric domain.
For example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
label domain 30 { domain -> 123 }
.ft P
.RE
will reassociate all labels associated with domains from domain 30 to domain 123.
.RE
.PP
.KW CLUSTER
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewcluster\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Reassociates the selected label(s) with the specified metric cluster.
As a special case,
.I newcluster
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I cluster
from the 
.B label
rewriting rule.
This is most useful when
.I cluster
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
label cluster 30.* { cluster -> 123.* }
.ft P
.RE
will reassociate all labels associated with clusters from domain 30 to domain 123.
.RE
.PP
.KW ITEM
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewcluster\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewitem\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Reassociates the selected label(s) with the specified metric item.
As special cases,
.I newcluster
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I cluster
from the 
.B label
rewriting rule and/or
.I item
could be an asterisk which means use
.I item
from the 
.B label
rewriting rule.
This is most useful when
.I cluster
and/or
.I item
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
label item 30.*.* { item -> 123.*.* }
.ft P
.RE
will reassociate all labels associated with metrics from domain 30 to domain 123.
.RE
.PP
.KW INDOM
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
Reassociates the selected label(s) with the specified instance domain.
As a special case,
.I newserial
could be an asterisk ``*'' which means use
.I serial
from the 
.B label
rewriting rule, although this is most useful when
.I serial
is also an asterisk.
So for example:
.RS +4n
.ft CW
label indom 29.* { indom -> 109.* }
.ft P
.RE
will reassociate all labels associated with instance domains from domain 29 to domain 109.
.RE
.PP
.KW INSTANCES
.KW ->
\fInewdomain\fP\f(BI.\fP\fInewserial\fP
.RS +4n
.PP
This is the same as
.KW INDOM
except that it reassociates the selected label(s) with the instances of the specified
instance domain.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To promote the values of the per-disk IOPS metrics to 64-bit to
allow aggregation over a long time period for capacity
planning, or because the PMDA has changed to export 64-bit counters
and we want to convert old archives so they can be processed
alongside new archives.
.RS +4
.ft CW
.nf
metric disk.dev.read { type -> U64 }
metric disk.dev.write { type -> U64 }
metric disk.dev.total { type -> U64 }
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.PP
The instances associated with the load average metric
.B kernel.all.load
could be renamed and renumbered by the
rules below.
.RS +4
.ft CW
.nf
# for the Linux PMDA, the kernel.all.load metric is defined
# over instance domain 60.2
indom 60.2 {
    inst 1 -> 60 iname "1 minute" -> "60 second"
    inst 5 -> 300 iname "5 minute" -> "300 second"
    inst 15 -> 900 iname "15 minute" -> "900 second"
}
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.PP
If we decide to split the ``proc'' metrics out of the Linux PMDA, this
will involve changing the domain number for the PMID of these metrics
and the associated instance domains.  The rules below would rewrite an
old archive to match the changes after the PMDA split.
.RS +4
.ft CW
.nf
# all Linux proc metrics are in 7 clusters
metric 60.8.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
metric 60.9.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
metric 60.13.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
metric 60.24.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
metric 60.31.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
metric 60.32.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
metric 60.51.* { pmid -> 123.*.* }
# only one instance domain for Linux proc metrics
indom 60.9 { indom -> 123.0 }
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.PP
If the metric foo.count_em was exported as a native ``long'' then it
could be a 32-bit integer on some platforms and a 64-bit integer on
other platforms.  Subsequent investigations show the value is in
fact unsigned, so the following rules could be used.
.RS +4
.ft CW
.nf
metric foo.count_em {
	type if 32 -> U32
	type if 64 -> U64
}
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
For each of the
.I inlog
and
.I outlog
archive logs, several physical files are used.
.TP 10
\f2archive\f3.meta
metadata (metric descriptions, instance domains, etc.) for the archive log
.TP
\f2archive\f3.0
initial volume of metrics values (subsequent volumes have suffixes
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
\&...).
.TP
\f2archive\f3.index
temporal index to support rapid random access to the other files in the
archive log.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmdaInstance (3),
.BR pmdumplog (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmloglabel (1),
.BR pmlogreduce (1),
.BR pmLookupDesc (3),
.BR pmns (5),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error conditions detected by
.B pmlogrewrite
are reported on
.I stderr
with textual (if sometimes terse) explanation.
.PP
Should the input archive log be corrupted (this can happen
if the
.B pmlogger
instance writing the log suddenly dies), then
.B pmlogrewrite
will detect and report the position of the corruption in the file,
and any subsequent information from that archive log will not be processed.
.PP
If any error is detected,
.B pmlogrewrite
will exit with a non-zero status.
