'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMLOGBASENAME 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogbasename\f1 \- basename of a PCP archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogbasename\f1
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
\f2name\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogbasename
takes
.I name
(usually the name of one of the physical files in a PCP archive)
and strips it of any compression suffixes
then strips it of any PCP archive component suffixes,
then reports the result (the basename of a PCP archive) on standard output.
.PP
The compression suffixes known to PCP are:
.BR .xz ,
.BR .lzma ,
.BR .bz2 ,
.BR .bz ,
.BR .gz ,
.B .Z
and
.BR .z .
.PP
The PCP archive component suffixes are:
.BR .meta ,
.B .index
and
.BI . <n>
for any integer
.IR <n> .
.PP
For the most part the stripping is purely textual and
is done without tests for the existence of any of the
associated files, although if
.I name
does not match the pattern of a valid file name for a PCP archive
then the output is
.I name
without any stripping.
.PP
The one exception is when
.I name
ends with
.I .N
where
.I N
is a sequence of 1 or more digits, in which case an ambiguity occurs.
For example consider
.I name
to be
.BR 20241125.05.48 ,
where this could mean the archive basename is really
.B 20241125.05.48
or it could mean this refers to volume
.B 48
of the archive basename
.BR 20241125.05 .
In the former case, the file \fIname\fB.meta\fR (or one of the
compressed versions of this) should exist and
.I pmlogbasename
probes the filesystem to determine if such a file exists.
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.PP
Debugging options specific to
.B pmlogbasename
are as follows:
.TS
box;
lf(B) | lf(B)
lf(B) | lxf(R) .
Option	Description
_
appl0	T{
.ad l
report the name of each file that exists and potentially matches
.I name
T}
_
appl1	T{
.ad l
report the name of each file that does
.B not
exist but was probed looking
for matches with
.I name
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1)
and
.BR LOGARCHIVE (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ pmlogbasename lzma
