'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMLOGSIZE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmlogsize\f1 \- report sizes for parts of PCP archive(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmlogsize\f1
[\f3\-drv?\f1]
[\f3\-D\f1 \f2debug\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2threshold\f1]
\f2archive\f1
[...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmlogsize
prints information about the size of the index, metadata and data
sections of a Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive.
The output is intended to guide improvements in archive encoding
format for PCP developers and to help trim
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration files to remove metrics that are bloating the PCP archives
with low-value data in production environments.
.PP
The
.I archive
arguments can be any mixture of the names of the physical files
of a PCP archive or the basename that is common to all the
component physical
files in a single archive.
In the latter case
.I archive
is replaced by a list of all of the matching component file names.
.PP
Note the semantics is a little different to other PCP tools in
that
.B foo.meta
means
.B just
the file
.BR foo.meta ,
not
.BR foo.index ,
.BR foo.meta ,
.BR foo.0 ,
etc.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-detail\fR
Enable detailed reporting.
This means space per instance domain
in a metadata file and space per metric (for values) in a data file.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-replication\fR
Display additional information about possible replicated values
in the data file and replicated instances in the metadata file.
This option implies
.BR \-d .
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIthreshold\fR, \fB\-\-threshold\fR=\fIthreshold\fR
With
.B \-d
(or
.BR \-r ),
cut off the report after at least
.I threshold
percent of the associated space (metric values or instance domains)
has been reported.
The default behaviour is equivalent to
.I threshold
being set to \fB100\fR.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose mode.
This option can be provided more than once for additional verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
The
.B \-D
or
.B \-\-debug
option enables the output of additional diagnostics on
.I stderr
to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic and
primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.
.I debug
is a comma separated list of debugging options; use
.BR pmdbg (1)
with the
.B \-l
option to obtain
a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmlogcheck (1),
.BR pmlogdump (1)
and
.BR pmlogger (1).
