'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Red Hat.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMMGR 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmmgr\f1 \- pcp daemon manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmmgr\f1
[\f3\-v\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2config-directory\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2polling-interval\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2log-file\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmmgr
manages a collection of PCP daemons for a set of discovered local and
remote hosts running the Performance Metrics Collection Daemon (PMCD),
according to zero or more configuration directories.
It keeps a matching set of
.BR pmie ,
.BR pmlogger , 
.B pmrep
and other daemons running, and their archives/logs merged/rotated.
It provides an alternative to the default
.B pmlogger_daily
and
.BR pmie_daily
scripts that administer
.B pmlogger
and
.B pmie
``farms'' using
.BR cron (3).
.P
.B pmmgr
is largely self-configuring and perseveres despite most run-time
errors.
.B pmmgr
runs in the foreground until interrupted.
When signaled, it will stop its running daemons before exiting.
.SH ALGORITHM
Each poll interval,
.B pmmgr
computes a list of possible targets for a
.B pmcd
search.  This list is assembled from several configuration files,
and may include explicitly listed specifications, hosts discovered through
several different mechanisms, and/or individual containers running within them.
Once the list is assembled,
.B pmmgr
attempts to make a brief
.I pmNewContext
connection to each target, in order to check for the existence of an actual
running
.B pmcd
instance, and to extract a host-id.  The host-id is treated as a
unique identifier for the instance, so that redundant connection paths to the
same server can be filtered out.
Once the final list of live
.B pmcd
instances is identified, along with their unique host-ids, pmmgr ensures that
any requested pcp client daemons are started (or restarted) for them.  If any
.B pmcd
instances disappear from the list, its pcp client daemons are stopped.
This entire cycle repeats every poll interval.
.SH OPTIONS
A description of the command line options specific to
.B pmmgr
follows:
.TP 5
.B \-c
.I directory
adds a given configuration directory to
.BR pmmgr .
.B pmmgr
can supervise
multiple different configurations at the same time, so this option may
be repeated.
Errors in the configuration may be noted to standard error, but
.B pmmgr
will fill in missing information with built-in defaults.
The default directory is
.I $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmmgr
.TP
.B \-p
.I polling-interval
sets the host-discovery polling interval to the given number of seconds.
The default is 60.  Daemons for a particular target host will be restarted
no more frequently than this interval.  There may be a short-lived thread
inside
.B pmmgr
for startup and shutdown of each daemon for each target host.
.TP
.B \-l
.I log-file
redirects standard output and error to the given log file, which is created anew
.TP
.B \-v
adds more verbose tracing to standard output.
.SH CONFIGURATION
A
.B pmmgr
configuration identifies which hosts should be monitored, which
daemons should be maintained for them, and what options those daemons
should be run with.
.B pmmgr
uses a small number of files in a configuration directory,
instead of lines in a text file.
The individual files carry zero or more lines of 100% pure configuration
text, and no comments.  (If desired, a configuration may be commented
upon with any other file, such as a free-form README.)
.SS TARGET SELECTION
This set of configuration files identifies where
.B pmmgr
should search
for
.B pmcd
instances, how to uniquely identify them, and where state
such as log files should be kept for each.  Ideally, a persistent and
unique host-id string is computed for each potential target pmcd from
specified metric values.  This host-id is also used as a subdirectory
name for locating daemon data.
.TP
.I hostid\-static
This file contains a single line specifying the static string that should be
used for the host-id value.  Specifying a value in this file overrides the
.I hostid\-metrics
file specified below.  It should be noted that using this option will cause
all target pmcds to be assigned the same hostid.  Thus, this is useful in
monitoring single hosts, or if each monitored host has its own configuration
directory.
.TP
.I hostid\-metrics
This file contains one or more lines of metric specifications in the format
accepted by
.IR pmParseMetricSpec .
Metrics without instance specifiers mean all instances of that metric.
These are used to generate the
.IR unique
host-id string for each
.B pmcd
server that
.B pmmgr
discovers.
Upon discovery,
all the metrics/instances named are queried, string values fetched, and
normalized/concatenated into a single hyphenated printable string.
The default is the single metric
.BR pmcd.hostname ,
which is sufficient if all the hosts discovered have unique hostname(2).  If
they don't, you should add other pcp metric specifications to set them apart
at your site.  The more you add, the longer the host-id string, but the more
likely that accidental duplication is prevented.
.P
However, it may be desirable for a host-id to also be
.IR persistent ,
so that if the target host goes offline and later returns, the new
host-id matches the previous one, because then old and new histories can be joined.
This argues against using metrics whose values vary from boot to boot.
.P
Some candidate metrics to consider:
.IR network.interface.hw_addr ", " network.interface.inet_addr["eth0"] ", "
.IR network.interface.ipv6_addr ", " kernel.uname.nodename
.TP
.I log\-directory
This file contains the path of a directory beneath which the per-host-id
subdirectories are to be created by
.BR pmmgr .
If it is not a full path, it
is implicitly relative to the configuration directory itself.  The default is
.BR $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmmgr/ .
.TP
.I target\-host
This file contains one or more lines containing
.B pmcd
host specifications, as described on the
.IR PCPintro (1)
manual page.
The default is to target pmcd at
.BR local: .
.TP
.I target\-discovery
This file contains one or more lines containing specifications for the
.IR pmDiscoverServices
PMAPI call, each of which may map onto a fluctuating set of local or remote
pmcd servers.  Each poll interval,
.B pmmgr
will attempt to rerun discovery with
all of the given specifications.  Again, it is not a problem if more than one
specification matches the same actual pmcd: one confirmed access path is
arbitrarily selected.  The default is to do
.BR "no discovery" .
Consider including
.IR avahi,timeout=5
to rely in pmcd self-announcements on the local network (searching for up to
five seconds each time).  Consider including
.IR probe=192.168.1.0/24
to quickly scan the given IP address range.
.TP
.I target\-kubectl\-pod
If this file exists, pmmgr is assumed to run within a kubernetes cluster.
The line of the configuration file is appended to a
.B kubectl get pod
command line to discover IP addresses of all matching pods running nearby.
.B pmmgr extracts the
.B .status.podIP
field from the kubernetes pod object(s) and tries to connect to each at
the default pmcd port number.  Use options like
.I -l service=foobar
to restrict the search with labels.  The default is to do
.BR "no kubectl" .
.TP
.I subtarget\-containers
If this file exists,
.B pmmgr
will scan each host that is found for
running containers.  For each running container, it will create
independent subtargets for running requested daemons.
The host-id string for these subtargets is the host's host-id
string, followed by a double-hyphen, then the full unique container
instance-name string.
.TP
.I target\-threads
This file contains a limit on the number of concurrent threads
that analyze potential target pmcds for their hostids and/or
containers.  The default is
.BR "a few dozen threads per CPU core" ,
if known.  Set this to zero if remote pmcds should be analyzed
sequentially.  A small number of threads is not a good idea if any
potential target pmcds are unreachable, since $PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
may be several seconds long each.
.TP
.I log\-subdirectory\-gc
This file may contain a time interval specification as per the
.BR PCPintro (1)
manual page.
All subdirectories of the log\-directory are
presumed to contain data for
.BR pmmgr -monitored
servers.
Those that have not been modified in at least that long,
and not associated with a currently monitored target, are
deleted entirely.
This value should be longer than the longest interval that
.B pmmgr
normally recreates archives (such as due to
.B pmmgr
restarts, and
.B pmlogmerge
intervals).
The default value is
.IR 90days .
.SS PMLOGGER CONFIGURATION
This group of configuration options controls a
.BR pmlogger
daemon for each host.  This may include generating its configuration,
and managing its archives.
.TP
.I pmlogger
If and only if this file exists, pmmgr will maintain a
.BR pmlogger
daemon for each
targeted host.
This file contains one line of additional space-separated options
for the
.B pmlogger
daemon.  (\c
.B pmmgr
already adds \-h, \-H, \-f, \-r, \-l, and perhaps \-c.)
The default is to maintain
.BR "no pmlogger"
(and no other configuration in this section is processed).
.TP
.I pmlogger\-timefmt
Specify a time format to use in the archive\-* name for
.B pmlogger
generated archives. The default is "%Y%m%d.%H%M%S". Expected to be in 
.BR strftime (3)
format.
.TP
.I pmlogconf
If and only if this file exists,
.B pmmgr
will run
.B pmlogconf
to generate a configuration
file for each target
.BR pmcd .
The file contains one line of space-separated additional
options for the
.BR pmlogconf
program.
.BR pmlogconf 's
generated output file will be stored under
the log\-directory/hostid subdirectory.  (\c
.B pmmgr
already adds \-c, \-r, and \-h.)
The default is
.BR "no pmlogconf" ,
so instead, the
.B pmlogger
file above should probably contain a \-c option, to
specify a fixed
.B pmlogger
configuration.
.SS ARCHIVE LOG MANAGEMENT
Default
.B pmlogger
configurations can collect tens of megabytes of data
per day (possibly split into multiple archives), per target host.
If your disk space is less than infinite, or archive-splitting unwieldy,
this should be managed.  In the default, unmanaged case, the system
administrator is responsible for managing the individual
.I archive-*
files from the per-host logging subdirectories.
.B pmmgr
offers several other options,
each representing different performance and usability tradeoffs.
.SS ARCHIVE LOG MANAGEMENT - pmlogmerge
This style of archive log management regularly creates a single merged
archive from prior archives for each target host, in effect lopping
off old data and appending the new.  A single merged archive can be
relatively large (defaults to approximately 100-400 MB per host), and
puts a corresponding I/O load on storage, but is most convenient for a
detailed long-timeframe analysis.
Once
.B pmlogger
is restarted, it
always creates a new archive, so in the steady state, there will be
one merged archive of recent history, and one current archive being
written-to by
.BR pmlogger .
.TP
.I pmlogmerge
If this file exists,
.B pmmgr
will run
.B pmlogextract
to periodically merge together preexisting log archives for each
target pmcd into a single large one.  Then, the preexisting log
archives are deleted (including any prior merged ones).
This configuration file may contain a time interval specification as per the
.BR PCPintro (1)
manual page, representing the period after which
.B pmlogger
should be temporarily stopped, and archives merged.
It represents the maximum amount of time that
the merged archive \fIlags\fR the present time.
The default is
.IR 24hours .
.TP
.I pmlogmerge\-granular
If this file also exists,
.B pmmgr
will merge only a subset of preexisting
log archives into the new one, instead of all of them, so as to
approximate a granular, aligned set of merged archives.
The subset chosen corresponds to the previous time interval specified by the
.I pmlogmerge
control file.
The default is
.BR "no granularity" .
.TP
.I pmlogcheck\-corrupt\-gc
Before archives are considered for merging, they are processed through
.B pmlogcheck
to check for corruption.
In the unlikely case of a
problem, such archives are renamed out of the way (named "corrupt-*"),
and retained up to a limited time.
This file specifies how long.
If this file exists, it the time interval it contains is the maximum age.
The default is
.BR 90days .
To store corrupt archives indefinitely, set this to a large
quantity like "99999weeks".
.TP
.I pmlogmerge\-rewrite
If this file exists,
.B pmmgr
will run
.B "pmlogrewrite -i"
(plus any other options listed in this file) on each input archive before
merging it.  This will naturally require more disk I/O.  The default is
.BR "no rewriting" .
.TP
.I pmlogmerge\-retain
.B pmmgr
reduces/deletes any original-resolution archives after a time
period specified by this file, as measured by the file mtime.
The period will also be passed to
.B pmlogextract
as a negative parameter to \f2\-S\f1.
The default is
.IR 14days .
To store archives indefinitely, set this to a large quantity
like "99999weeks".
.TP
.I pmlogreduce
If this file exists, then prior to removing archives that
expire past the
.I pmlogmerge\-retain
period, they are processed with
.B pmlogreduce
to create reduced archives (named \fBreduced-*\fR).  If the
file contains space-separated options, they are passed onto
pmlogreduce.  (By default, pmlogreduce down-samples to a
600-second interval.)
.TP
.I pmlogreduce\-retain
If this file exists, then reduced archives (identified by the
\fBreduced-*\fR pattern) are deleted after a time period
specified by this file, as measured from the file mtime.
Since this time is likely that of the pmlogreduce run, the
total retention time will be approximately the pmlogmerge\-retain
time \fBplus\fR the pmlogreduce\-retain time.
The default is
.BR 90days .
To store reduced archives indefinitely, set this to a large
quantity like "99999weeks".
.SS PMIE CONFIGURATION
This group of configuration options controls a
.BR pmie
daemon for each host.
This may include generating a custom configuration.
.TP
.I pmie
If and only if this file exists, pmmgr will maintain a
.B pmie
daemon for each targeted
.BR pmcd .
This file contains one line of additional space-separated options
for the
.B pmie
daemon.  (pmmgr already adds \-h, \-f, \-l, and perhaps \-c.)
The default is to maintain
.BR "no pmie"
(and no other configuration in this section is processed).
.TP
.I pmieconf
If and only if this file exists,
.B pmmgr
will run
.B pmieconf
to generate a configuration
file for each target
.BR pmcd .
The file contains one line of space-separated additional options for the
.B pmieconf
program.
.BR pmieconf -
generated output file will be stored under
the log\-directory/hostid subdirectory.  (\c
.B pmmgr
already adds \-F, \-c, and \-f.)
The default is
.BR "no pmieconf" ,
so instead, the
.I pmie
file above should probably contain a \-c option, to
specify a fixed
.B pmie configuration.
.SS MONITOR DAEMON MANAGEMENT
.B pmmgr
may be used to invoke arbitrary PCP client programs for each target
.BR pmcd .
This can enable automated invocation of reporting or relaying tools, such as
.BR pmrep ,
.B pcp2graphite
or
.B pcp2influxdb
without needing a specialized system service.
.TP
.I monitor
If this file exists, then for each line in this file, a new background process will
be invoked.  (It is restarted if it exits.)  The line specifies the beginning of the
command line (including the program name);
.B pmmgr
appends a \-h HOSTSPEC, and arranges
to collect the standard output and standard error into separate
.BR monitor-NN.out " and " monitor-NN.err
files under the log directory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_SYSCONF_DIR/pmmgr/
default configuration directory
.TP
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmmgr/
default logging directory
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parametrize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR cron (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmlogconf (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogger_daily (1),
.BR pmieconf (1),
.BR pmie (1),
.BR pmie_daily (1),
.BR pmrep (1),
.BR pcp2graphite (1),
.BR pcp2influxdb (1),
.BR pmlogreduce (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
