'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMNSDEL 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmnsdel\f1 \- delete a subtree of names from the Performance Co-Pilot PMNS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmnsdel
[\f3\-?\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2namespace\f1]
.I metricpath
[...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmnsdel
removes subtrees of names from a Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS),
as used by the components of the
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP).
.P
Normally
.B pmnsdel
operates on the default Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is used
from the file
.IR namespace .
.PP
The default PMNS is found in the file
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/root
unless the environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is set, in which case the value is assumed to be the pathname
to the file containing the default PMNS.
.PP
The metric names to be deleted are all those for which one of the
.IR metricpath
arguments is
a prefix in the PMNS, see
.BR PMNS (5).
.PP
All of the files defining the PMNS must be located within the
directory that contains the root of the PMNS, and this would typically be
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns
for the default PMNS, and this would typically imply running
.B pmnsdel
as root.
.PP
Provided some initial integrity checks are satisfied,
.B pmnsdel
will update the necessary PMNS files.
Should an error be encountered
the original namespace is restored.
Note
that any PMNS files that are no longer referenced by the modified namespace
will not be removed, even though their contents are
not part of the new namespace.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-n\fR \fIpmnsfile\fR, \fB\-\-namespace\fR=\fIpmnsfile\fR
Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space
.RB ( PMNS (5))
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH CAVEATS
Once the writing of the new
.I namespace
file has begun, the signals SIGINT, SIGHUP and SIGTERM will be ignored
to protect the integrity of the new files.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/root
the default PMNS, when the environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is unset
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmnsadd (1),
.BR pmnsmerge (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5),
.BR pcp.env (5)
and
.BR PMNS (5).
