.TH PMPYTHON 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmpython\f1 \- run a python script using a preferred python variant
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmpython\f1
[\f2python-args-and-script\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmpython
provides a way to run python scripts using a customisable python
interpreter, rather than embedding the name of
a particular version of python into
each script.
.PP
This can be useful as it allows version-independent python code to be
run anywhere.  All python modules shipped with PCP support versions
2.6 and later (in the python2 series), and 3.3 and later (in the python3
release series).
.PP
Due to python monitoring and collecting scripts being relatively simple
in PCP (not requiring new modules, language features, etc), it has been
possible to ensure they work for all of the above python versions.
.PP
However, the name of the python interpreter is not always the same,
thus,
it is common for PCP python scripts to use a \(lqshebang\(rq line that
launches the
.B python
interpreter indirectly
as follows:
.PP
.in 1.0i
.ft CW
.nf
#!/usr/bin/env pmpython
.fi
.ft
.in
.PP
.BR env (1)
is used to find the correct path for the
.B pmpython
executable from the user's
.BR $PATH .
.PP
By default the name of the python interpreter is found from the
the value of
.B $PCP_PYTHON_PROG
from the environment (if set) else
from
.IR /etc/pcp.conf .
The latter is the
more typical case where
this value is based on
some heuristics about the platform at the time the PCP packages were
build and
favour the use of
.I python3
in all recent releases of PCP (for those platforms that support it).
.PP
This allows an appropriate name to be used for the python
interpreter instead of a hard-coded
python version name, while still allowing the user to override the python
interpreter as follows:
.PP
.in 1.0i
.ft CW
.nf
$ PCP_PYTHON_PROG=python3 pmpython --version
Python 3.4.2
$ PCP_PYTHON_PROG=python2 pmpython --version
Python 2.7.9
.fi
.ft R
.in
.PP
This is convenient for shipping identical scripts on multiple platforms,
and for testing different python versions with the one script (e.g. in
the case where multiple versions of python are installed, PCP_PYTHON_PROG
can be set in the local environment to override the global setting).
.PP
.B pmpython
is a replacement for an earlier tool with similar function, namely
.BR pcp-python (1).
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR env (1),
.BR pcp (1),
.BR pcp-python (1)
and
.BR PCPIntro (1).
