.TH PMQUERY 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmconfirm\f1, \f3pmmessage\f1, \f3pmquery\f1 \- general purpose dialog box
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmconfirm\f1
[\f3\-c\f1]
[\f3\-b\f1 \f2button-name\f1]
[\f3\-B\f1 \f2default-button-name\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2string\f1]
[\f3\-file\f1 \f2filename\f1]
[\f3\-icon\f1 \f2icontype\f1]
[\f3\-font\f1 \f2font\f1]
[\f3\-header\f1 \f2titlebar-string\f1]
[\f3\-useslider\f1]
[\f3\-noslider\f1]
[\f3\-noframe\f1]
[\f3\-exclusive\f1]
.br
.PP
\f3pmmessage\f1
[\f3\-buttons\f1 \f2label1\f1[:\f2value1\f1][,\f2label2\f1[:\f2value2\f1][,...]]]
[\f3\-center\f1]
[\f3\-nearmouse\f1]
[\f3\-default\f1 \f2button\f1]
[\f3\-file\f1 \f2filename\f1]
[\f3\-print\f1]
[\f3\-timeout\f1 \f2sec\f1]
.I message...
.br
.PP
\f3pmquery
[\f3\-input\f1]
[\f3all above options...\f1]
[\f2message...\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmquery
provides a command-line-option compatible implementation of the
.B xconfirm
and
.B xmessage
tools, using a look-and-feel that is consistent with
.BR pmchart .
Several extensions to the functionality of the original tools have been made,
in order to improve their specific utility for
.BR pmchart ,
but wherever possible the original semantics remain.
.PP
.B pmconfirm
displays a line of text for each
.I \-t
argument specified (or a file when the
.I \-file
argument is used),
and a button for each
.I \-b
argument specified.
When one of the buttons is pressed, the label of that button is written to
.B pmquery's
standard output.
This provides a means of communication/feedback from within shell
scripts and a means to display useful information to a user from
an application.
.PP
.B pmmessage
displays a window containing a message from the command line, a file,
or standard input.
It additionally allows buttons to be associated with an exit status,
and only optionally will write the label of the button to standard output.
.PP
.B pmquery
extends the above tools to additionally support limited user input,
as free form text.
In this
.B \-input
mode, any text entered will be output when the default button is pressed.
A default text can be entered using the same mechanisms as the other tools.
.PP
Command line options are available to specify font style, frame style,
modality and one of several different icons to be presented for tailored
visual feedback to the user.
.TP 5
.B \-c \f1or \f3\-center\f1
Center the window on the display.
.TP
.B \-nearmouse
Pop up the window near the mouse cursor.
.TP
.B \-b \f2button-name\f1
Displays a button with the label
.IR button-name .
If
.I button-name
is the empty string, the button in that position is not displayed.
If no
.B \-b
arguments are present, the default is a button with the label Continue.
The exit status associated with
.I button-name
is zero.
.TP
.B \-B \f2button-name\f1
Displays a button with the label
.I button-name
and specifies it as the button to be activated when enter is pressed.
The exit status associated with
.I button-name
is zero.
.TP
.B \-buttons \f2button,button,.\|.\|.\f1
This option will create one button for each comma-separated \f2button\f1
argument.
Each \f2button\f1 consists of a label optionally followed by a colon
and an exit value.
The exit value will be returned if that button is selected.
The default exit value is 100 plus the button number.
Buttons are numbered from the left starting with one.
.TP
.B \-default \fIlabel\fP
Defines the button with a matching \fIlabel\fP to be the default.
If not specified there is no default.
The corresponding resource is \fBdefaultButton\fP.
Pressing Return anywhere in the \fIxmessage\fP window will activate
the default button.
The default button has a wider border than the others.
.TP
.B \-t \f2message\f1
Displays message.
Any number of strings can be listed on the command line
(each must be preceded with the
.B \-t
option).
.TP
.B \-file \f2filename\f1
Displays the file
.I filename.
All
.B \-t
options will be ignored.
A \f2filename\f1 of `\f2\-\f1' reads from standard input.
.TP
.B \-icon \f2icontype\f1
Displays the icon
.I icontype
where icontype is one of:
.IR info ,
.IR error ,
.IR question ,
.IR warning ,
.IR critical .
.I action
is also accepted as a synonym for
.I error
for backward compatibility.
.BR pmquery
introduces the additional
.I archive
and
.I host
icon types as well as the original 
.BR xconfirm
types listed earlier.
.TP
.B \-font \f2fontname\f1
Use fontname as the font.
This option is only available when using the X Window System.
.TP
.B \-header \f2string\f1
Use string as the window title.
.TP
.B \-print
This causes the program to write the label of the button pressed to
standard output.
It is the default behaviour for
.B pmconfirm
and
.BR pmquery .
.TP
.B \-noprint
This causes the program to not write the label of the button pressed to
standard output.
It is the default behaviour for
.BR pmmessage .
.TP
.B \-geometry \f2geometry-string\f1
This provides xconfirm with an X-compatible geometry string specification.
This option is only available when using the X Window System.
.TP
.B \-useslider
When displaying a file, always use a slider instead of determining
automatically whether a slider is necessary.
.TP
.B \-noslider
Do not create a slider, and clip text to the window size, instead of
determining automatically whether a slider is necessary..
.TP
.B \-noframe
Do not display a frame around the contents.
.TP
.B \-exclusive
Grab the keyboard/pointer and do not allow further
input until a button is pressed.
.TP
.B \-timeout \f2secs\f1
Exit with status 0 after \fIsecs\fP seconds if the user has not
clicked on a button yet.
The corresponding resource is \fBtimeout\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following shell script will display a window with an information icon,
asking the user a yes or no question with "Yes" as the default.
.PP
.nf
 #! /bin/sh
 case `pmquery \-t "Really power down?" \-b No \-B Yes \-icon question
 in
   Yes) shutdown;;
   No) ;;
 esac
.fi
.PP
A second example, which prompts for a hostname then starts a
terminal with an ssh session connected to the requested host.
.PP
.nf
 #! /bin/sh
 host=`pmquery \-input \-icon host \-b Cancel \-B OK \\
               \-header "Remote Terminal \- Secure Shell"
 [ "$host" = "Cancel" \-o \-z "$host" ] && exit
 gnome-terminal \-e "ssh $host"
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B pmquery
is an excellent choice of utility for the "PCP_XCONFIRM_PROG"
Performance Co-Pilot configuration parameter (refer to
.BR pcp.conf (5)
for details).
.PP
Note that PCP_XCONFIRM_PROG will be automatically set to
.B pmquery
inside tools like
.BR pmchart ,
unless PCP_XCONFIRM_PROG is already set in the environment.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
If it detects an error,
.B pmquery
always returns 1, so this value should not be associated with a button.
Unless \f2\-button\f1 option has not been used, the return code will be
zero on success.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR xconfirm (1),
.BR xmessage (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5).
