'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMSERIES_IMPORT 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmseries_import\f1 \- import PCP archive files for historical time series querying
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmseries_import
[\f3\-h\f1]
[\f3\-\-archives\f1 \f2path\f1]
[\f3\-\-json\f1 \f2file\f1]
[\f3\-\-import-timeout\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-\-noop\f1]
[\f3\-\-poll-interval\f1 \f2delta\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2TZ\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmseries_import
monitors a given \f2path\f1 for PCP archives, and automatically
loads the contents into a key server (such as Valkey or Redis).
This is then suitable for fast time series querying using the
.BR pmseries (1)
language, as provided by the command line tool and PCP REST API
services of
.BR pmproxy (1).
.PP
.B pmseries_import
uses a simple polling technique, checking the archives directory
for new archive files every 10 seconds.
.PP
This utility is most commonly used within a container providing
an automated Grafana dashboard setup for arbitrary PCP archives.
This approach provides an environment containing a
.BR systemd (1)
server to enable this archive monitoring utility, pre-configured
.BR grafana-server (1),
.BR valkey-server (1),
and
.BR pmproxy (1)
REST API services.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB\-\-archives\fR=\fIpath\fR
Specifies an alternate
.I path
to poll for new PCP archives.
Default value is
.IR /archives .
.TP 5
\fB\-\-jsonfile\fR=\fIfile\fR
Specifies an alternate JSON format
.I file
to update whenever the time window boundaries are seen to have changed.
This file must contain JSON content, including a JSON map named "time"
with "start" and "end" fields where string timestamps will be written.
The default value is
.IR /usr/local/var/lib/grafana/dashboards/pcp-archive-analysis.json .
.TP 5
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display command usage message and exit.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-import-timeout\fR=\fItimeout\fR
Specify a number of seconds to allow for any individual archive
import to complete, via the
.B pmseries
load command for that archive.
The default
.I timeout
value is
.I 600
seconds (5 minutes).
.TP 5
\fB\-\-noop\fR
Skips all write operations (for debugging or testing purposes),
reporting only diagnostic messages instead.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-poll-interval\fR=\fIdelta\fR
The frequency with which the archive directory will be scanned.
Default
.I delta
is once every 10 seconds.
.TP 5
\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fIport\fR
An optional
.I port
on which
.B pmseries
should connect to the key server.
The default port is 6379.
.TP 5
\fB\-Z\fR \fITZ\fR, \fB\-\-timezone\fR=\fITZ\fR
An optional
.I TZ
value indicating the timezone to which
.B pmseries
should convert all archive timestamps when sending values to the
key server.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grafana-server (1),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR valkey-server (1),
.BR pmproxy (1)
and
.BR pmseries (1).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ grafana Grafana pre valkey Valkey
