'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Aconex.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH PMSIGNAL 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmsignal\f1 \- send a signal to one or more processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmsignal\f1
[\f3\-alnp\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 \fIsignal\fR]
[\f2PID\f1 ...|\f2name\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmsignal
provides a cross-platform event signalling mechanism for use with
tools from the Performance Co-Pilot toolkit.
It can be used to send a named
.I signal
(only HUP, USR1, TERM, and KILL are accepted)
to one or more processes.
.PP
The processes are specified directly using PIDs or as program names (with
either the
.B \-a
or
.B \-p
options).
In the
.B all
case, the set of all running processes is searched for a
.BR basename (1)
match on
.IR name .
In the
.B program
case, process identifiers are extracted from files in the $PCP_RUN_DIR
directory where file names are matched on \f2name\f1.pid.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option reports the list of process identifiers that would have been
signalled, but no signals are actually sent.
.PP
If a
.I signal
is not specified, then the TERM signal will be sent.
The list of supported signals is reported when using the
.B \-l
option.
.PP
On Linux and UNIX platforms,
.I pmsignal
is a simple wrapper around the
.IR kill (1)
command.
On Windows, the is no direct equivalent to this mechanism, and
so an alternate mechanism has been implemented \- this is only
honoured by PCP tools, however, not all Windows utilities.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Send signal to all named processes.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List supported signals.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
List processes that would be affected.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-program\fR
Extract programs from PCP runtime PID files.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR, \fB\-\-signal\fR=\fIsignal\fR
Specify the signal to send, one of: HUP, USR1, TERM, KILL.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR basename (1),
.BR kill (1),
.BR killall (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ HUP USR
