'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1500 Crittenden Lane,
.\" Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, or: http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.ie \(.g \{\
.\" ... groff (hack for khelpcenter, man2html, etc.)
.TH PMSLEEP 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
\}
.el \{\
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMSLEEP 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMSLEEP 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMSLEEP 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMSLEEP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.rr X
\}
.SH NAME
\f3pmsleep\f1 \- portable subsecond-capable sleep
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmsleep
.I interval
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmsleep
sleeps for 
.I interval.
The
.I interval
argument follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1)
for 
.B \-t,
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer 
or floating point constant 
(the implied units in this case are seconds).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The exit status is 0 for success, or 1 for a malformed command line.
If the underlying
.B nanosleep (2)
system call fails, an errno is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sleep (1),
.BR nanosleep (3).
