.TH PMSNAP 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmsnap\f1 \- generate performance summary snapshot images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmsnap
[\f3\-NV\f1]
[\f3\-C\f1 \f2dir\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2configs\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2names\f1]
[\f3\-o\f1 \f2dir\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2type\f1]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmsnap
is a shell script
that is normally run periodically from
.BR crontab (1)
to generate graphic images of 
.BR pmchart (1)
performance charts.
These images can be in any of the supported
.B pmchart
formats, including
.IR png ,
.IR bmp ,
and
.IR jpeg ,
and may be incorporated into the content offered by the local Web server.
The
.B \-V
option enables verbose tracing of the actions.
By default 
.B pmsnap
generates no output unless some error or warning condition is encountered.
.PP
.B pmsnap
generates images according to its control file,
.B $PCP_PMSNAPCONTROL_PATH
(or
.B dir/control
if the
.B \-C
option is specified),
and uses archive logs created by
.BR pmlogger (1)
or PCP archive folios created by
.BR pmafm (1)
and
.BR pmlogger_check (1).
Before attempting to configure
.BR pmsnap ,
it is strongly recommended that
.B pmlogger
be configured according to the descriptions in
.BR pmlogger_daily (1),
.BR pmlogger_check (1)
and
.BR pmlogger (1).
.P
Once
.B pmlogger
has been configured,
it is necessary to configure
.B pmsnap
as follows;
.IP 1.
Edit the control file
.BR $PCP_PMSNAPCONTROL_PATH .
The syntax of this file is described in the comment at the head of the file
and an example is supplied for one and twelve hour "Summary" performance charts
for the local host.
Suitable arguments for
.B pmchart
are also described in the comment.
The user should consult
.B pmchart
for further details.
Note that when
.B pmsnap
is run, it globally substitutes the string
.B LOCALHOSTNAME
with the name of the local host in the control file.
.IP 2.
Test the configuration by running
.ce 1
.BR "$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmsnap" .
Without any arguments 
.B pmsnap
will process every non-comment line in 
.BR $PCP_PMSNAPCONTROL_PATH .
The output images will be placed in the files named
in the first field of each line in the control file, with the file format
appended if necessary.
If these file names do not start with
.B /
or
.B .
then they are assumed relative to
.IR dir ,
as specified with the
.B \-o
option.
The default
.I dir
is the current directory.
Note that if
.B pmlogger
has only been recently started (within about the last 15 minutes),
snap-shot images may not be produced and no error
messages will be issued - the reason is that
.B pmchart
can not use very short archives
and hence, neither can
.BR pmsnap .
For debugging purposes the
.B \-V
flag should be used.
.IP 3.
Add an appropriate entry for
.B pmsnap
in the
.B root
user's
.BR crontab .
An example is supplied in
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/crontab .
.IP 4.
Incorporate the
.B pmsnap
images into the local WWW content.
Usually, WWW pages use images that are relative to a particular document root,
so it is often convenient to use the
.B \-o
command line option to specify a sub-directory of the local WWW content,
and then create a web page in this directory that shows the
snapshot images with text and other content appropriate to the local
environment.
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.B pmsnap
accepts the following command line options;
.TP
.BI \-C " dir"
The
.B control
file is located in the directory
.I dir
rather than in the default
.BR $PCP_PMSNAPCONTROL_PATH
location.
.TP
.BI \-c " config-pattern"
Only process lines in the control file
which match the 
.I config-pattern
regular expression
in the
.B Config
column.
.TP
.BI \-n " name-pattern"
Only process lines in the control file
which match the 
.I name-pattern
regular expression (see
.BR egrep (1))
in the
.B Name
column.
.TP
.BI \-o " dir"
The output images having file names which do not start
with
.B /
or
.B .
will be placed in a directory relative to
.IR dir ,
otherwise the output directory
is relative to the current directory (i.e. the default
value for
.I dir
is
.BR ./ ).
Note that
.I dir
must be a writable directory path
and may be on an NFS or CIFS file system.
.P
The
.B \-N
option enables a ``show me'' mode, where the actions are echoed,
but not executed, in the style of ``make \-n''.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.P
When either
.B \-n
or
.BR \-c
are used,
.B pmsnap
will only process lines in the control file
which match all the supplied patterns.
If no patterns are given,
then all lines will be processed.
These arguments allow multiple entries for
.B pmsnap
in
.B crontab
so that different performance summary images can be generated
at different times or with different frequencies.
.P
A sample HTML page, suitable for the Summary snapshot may be found in
.BR $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmsnap/Summary.html .
.P
Although
.B pmsnap
attempts to flush 
.BR stdio (3)
output buffers in the relevant 
.B pmlogger
processes before generating snap-shots images,
this may fail for assorted reasons and no error message will be given.
.P
.B pmsnap
should not be invoked immediately after
.B pmlogger_daily
has rolled the logs because the new archive logs will be too short
to obtain meaningful results.
Note however that
.B pmsnap
will not report errors from
.B pmchart
about not being able to comply with the
.B \-A
option on very short archives.
In these cases no error will be reported
and no output images will be produced.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
.B $PCP_PMSNAPCONTROL_PATH
\fBpmsnap\fR control file
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmsnap/Summary
summary view for
.B pmchart
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmsnap/Summary.html
sample HTML page for summary snapshot
.TP
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ hostname /Latest
PCP archive folio for the host
.IR hostname ,
as generated by
.B pmlogger_check
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/crontab
example
.B crontab
entry
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cron (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR egrep (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmafm (1),
.BR pmlc (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogger_daily (1),
.BR X (1),
and
.BR Xvfb (1).
