'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\"
.TH PMSTORE 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmstore\f1 \- modify performance metric values
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmstore\f1
[\f3\-L\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-i\f1 \f2instances\f1]
[\f3\-K\f1 \f2spec\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
\f2metricname\f1 \f2value\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Under certain circumstances, it is useful to be able to modify the values
of performance metrics, for example to re-initialize counters or to assign
new values to metrics that act as control variables.
.PP
.B pmstore
changes the current values for the nominated instances of a
single performance metric, as identified by
.I metricname
and the list of instance identifiers following the
.B \-i
argument.
.I instances
must be a single argument, with
elements of the list separated by commas and/or white space.
By default all
instances of
.I metricname
will be updated.
.PP
Normally
.B pmstore
operates on the default Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is loaded
from the file
.IR pmnsfile.
.PP
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option,
.B pmstore
will interact with the Performance Metric Collector Daemon (PMCD)
on the local host.
.PP
The
.B \-L
option causes
.B pmstore
to use a local context to store to metrics from PMDAs on the local host
without PMCD.  Only some metrics are available in this mode.
The
.BR \-h
and
.B \-L
options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
The interpretation of
.I value
is dependent on the syntax used in its specification and
the underlying data type of
.IR metricname ,
as follows.
.IP 1. 4
If the metric has an \fBinteger\fR type, then
.I value
should be an optional leading hyphen, followed either by decimal digits
or ``0x'' and some hexadecimal digits.  ``0X'' is also acceptable in lieu
of ``0x''.
See
.BR strtol (3)
and the related routines.
.IP 2. 4
If the metric has a \fBfloating point\fR type, then
.I value
should be either in the form of an integer described above, or
a fixed point number, or a number in scientific notation.
See
.BR strtod (3).
.IP 3. 4
If the metric has a \fBstring\fR type, then
.I value
is interpreted as a literal string of ASCII characters.
.IP 4. 4
If the metric has any other type (i.e.
.B PM_TYPE_EVENT
or
.BR PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE )
then no encoding of
.I value
from the command line makes sense, and the values of these metrics cannot
be modified with
.BR pmstore .
.PP
The output reports the old value and the new value for each updated
instance of the requested metric.
.PP
When using the
.B \-L
option to fetch metrics from a local context, the
.B \-K
option may be used to control the DSO PMDAs that should be
made accessible.  The
.I spec
argument conforms to the syntax described in
.BR __pmSpecLocalPMDA (3).
More than one
.B \-K
option may be used.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/ *
default PMNS specification files
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR __pmSpecLocalPMDA (3),
.BR strtod (3)
and
.BR strtol (3).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Two messages indicate a mismatch between the internal data type for
.I metricname
and the
.I value
provided.
.P
The value "???" is out of range for the data type (PM_TYPE_...)
.P
The value "???" is incompatible with the data type (PM_TYPE_...)
