'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH PMTIME 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmtime\f1 \- time control server for Performance Co-Pilot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmtime\f1
[\f3\-V?\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2port\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmtime
is a graphical user interface for performance monitoring applications
using the PCP infrastructure and requiring interactive time control.
.PP
.B pmtime
is not normally invoked directly by users.
Rather, it is more typical for it to be started by client applications
(e.g.
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmstat (1)
or
.BR pmval (1)).
.PP
There are two modes of interacting with a
.B pmtime
process - live host mode, and historical archive mode.
In archive mode the window presents time controls suitable for
manipulating the archive position, allowing full VCR control to
move forwards and backwards in time at configurable rates and
intervals.
In live mode the
.B pmtime
window contains the simpler time controls suitable for
live monitoring.
.PP
Note that the
.B pmtime
window is only made visible when explicitly requested.
Multiple client applications can be connected to a single
.B pmtime
server \- when the final client application exits,
.B pmtime
will also exit.
.SH OPTIONS
The available command line options are:
.TP 5
\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR, \fB\-\-guiport\fR=\fIport\fR
.I port
is the port number which
.B pmtime
will use for communication with its clients (monitoring applications).
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage message and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
When a port number is not explicitly requested on the command line
via the
.B \-p
option, the environment variable
.I PMTIME_PORT
can be set to specify the port number from which available-port
probing will commence when
.B pmtime
is searching for a port number to use.
.PP
The default starting port number is \fB43334\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmstat (1)
and
.BR pmval (1).

.\" control lines not needed for scripts/man-spell
