'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Red Hat.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" 
.TH PMWTF 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmwtf\f1 \- compares archives and report significant differences
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmwtf\f1
[\f3\-dz\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2precision\f1]
[\f3\-q\f1 \f2thres\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-B\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-E\f1 \f2endtime\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2metric\f1]
[\f3\-X\f1 \f2file\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
\f2archive1\f1
[\f2archive2\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmwtf
compares the average values for every metric in either one
or two archives, in a given time window, for changes that are
likely to be of interest when searching for performance regressions.
.PP
The archive log has the base name
.I archive
and must have been previously created using
.BR pmlogger (1).
The
.BR pmlogsummary (1)
utility is used to obtain the average values used for comparison.
.PP
There are two sorts of invocation of the tool: with either one or
two archives.
.PP
In the first case, the only sensible command line requires use of
all four time window arguments.  These are specified using the same
time window format described in
.BR PCPIntro (1),
and are
.B \-S
and
.B \-T
for the start and end times of the first time window of interest
in the archive, and
.B \-B
and
.B \-E
for the start and end times of the second time window of interest.
.PP
In the second case, with two archives, the 
.B \-B
and
.B \-E
options might be unnecessary.  This might be the case, for example,
when comparing the same time window of two consecutive days (usually
two separate archives), or a time window on the same day of different
weeks.
.PP
In either case,
.B pmwtf
produces a sorted summary of those metrics in the specified window
whose values have deviated the most from a minimal threshold.
The level of deviation is calculated by dividing the average value
of each metric in both logs, and then calculating whether the ratio
falls outside of a range considered normal.
This ratio can be adjusted using the
.B \-q
option, and by default it is 2 (i.e. report all metrics with average values that
have more than doubled in the two time windows or more
than halved in the two time windows).
.PP
Should any metrics be present in one window but missing from the
other, a diagnostic will be displayed listing each missing metric
and the archive from which it was missing.
.PP
The remaining options control the specific information to be reported.
Metrics with counter semantics are converted to rates before being
evaluated.
.TP 5
.B \-p
Print all floating point numbers with 
.I precision
digits after the decimal place.
.TP
.B \-x
Compare each metric in each archive in the time windows specified
to a given
.BR egrep (1)
pattern, excluding those that match from the report output.
.TP
.B \-X
Allows a
.IR file
to be specified which containing
.BR egrep (1)
patterns which are applied to the metric names to optionally exclude
some from the report.
.TP
.B \-z
Use the local timezone from the given archives.
.TP
.B \-Z
Changes the timezone in the archive labels to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (5).
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/ hostname
Default directory for PCP archives containing performance
metric values collected from the host
.IR hostname .
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmlogsummary (1),
.BR egrep (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).
