'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Ken McDonell.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\"
.TH RUNASPCP 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3runaspcp\f1 \- execute a shell command as the user ``pcp''
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/runaspcp
[\f3\-s\f1 \f2shell\f1] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B runaspcp
runs the single argument
.I command
as the user
.B $PCP_USER
and group
.B $PCP_GROUP
(both from
.IR /etc/pcp.conf ).
.PP
The
.I command
is run by
.BR sh (1)
by default, else
.I shell
from the
.B \-s
(or
.BR \-\-shell)
command line argument.
.PP
Normally
.B runaspcp
is used from the PCP ``init'' scripts that are launched
as ``root'' but need to downgrade their privileges when running
some PCP daemons as the ``pcp'' user.
.PP
The \fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
option displays a usage message.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The exit status is 1 if
.B runaspcp
cannot change user or group, or cannot execute the shell,
else the exit status of
.IR command .
.SH PCP ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables with the prefix \fBPCP_\fP are used to parameterize
the file and directory names used by PCP.
On each installation, the
file \fI/etc/pcp.conf\fP contains the local values for these variables.
The \fB$PCP_CONF\fP variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file, as described in \fBpcp.conf\fP(5).

.\" control lines not needed for scripts/man-spell
