'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH WEBLOGVIS 1 "" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3weblogvis\f1 \- visualize activity and performance from Web server logs
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3weblogvis\f1
[\f3\-bCfiVz\f1]
[\f3\-A\f1 \f2align\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-I\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-m\f1 \f2max\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-O\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-p\f1 \f2port\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2time\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2version\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
[\f2server\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B weblogvis
displays Web server activity as extracted from the Web server
access logs by the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) agent
.BR pmdaweblog (1).
The display is modulated by the values of the
performance metrics retrieved from the target
.I host
which is running
.BR pmcd (1)
and the 
.BR pmdaweblog (1)
Performance Metrics Domain Agent
.RB ( PMDA (3)),
or from the PCP archive log identified by
.IR archive .
The display is updated
every
.I interval
seconds (default 2 seconds).
.PP
The default display mode shows the request rate classified by
request response size, for all Web server logs being monitored
by
.BR pmdaweblog (1).
The top of the display includes the idle time 
and the total request rate of each Web server.
The list of servers can be restricted by specifying
.I server
names.  The possible 
.I servers
are listed in the
.BR pmdaweblog (1)
configuration file.
.PP
.B weblogvis
uses
.BR pmview (1),
and so the user interface follows
that described for
.BR pmview (1),
which in turn displays the scene
within an
Inventor examiner viewer.
.PP
.B weblogvis
passes most command line options to
.BR pmview (1).
Therefore, the command line options
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-O ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
.BR \-x ,
.BR \-Z
and
.BR \-z ,
and the user interface are described in the
.BR pmview (1)
man page.
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
The
.B weblogvis
specific options are:
.IP \f3\-b\f1
Change the display mode to report bytes per second, rather than
requests per second.
.IP \f3\-f\f1
Change the classification of activity to use HTTP functions (Get, Post, Head
and Other), rather than the default classification by request result size.
With this classification, the error rates from the logs for each
Web server are also displayed.
.IP \f3\-i\f1
Label each column with the name of the Web server.
.TP
.BI \-I " time"
Change the dafult expected idle time for the Web servers from
3600 seconds (1 hour) to 
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-m " max"
Change the default normalization maximum to
.I max
bytes/second or requests/second, depending on the display mode.
The defaults are 500000 bytes per second or 100 requests per second.
.IP \f3\-V\f1
Verbose mode \- output the generated
.BR pmview (1)
configuration file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogger/config.web
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file that can be used to create a PCP archive
suitable for display with
.B weblogvis
.TP
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmchart/Web.Alarms
.BR pmchart (1)
configuration file for monitoring Web server alarm conditions
.TP
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmchart/Web.Requests
.BR pmchart (1)
configuration file for monitoring Web server requests
.TP
.I $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmchart/Web.Volume
.BR pmchart (1)
configuration file for monitoring the volume of Web server transactions
.TP
.I $PCP_PMDAS_DIR/weblog
installation directory of 
.BR pmdaweblog (1)
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmdaweblog (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR webpingvis (1),
.BR webvis (1),
.BR pcp.conf (4)
and
.BR pcp.env (4).
