'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH PMIMPORT 1 "SGI" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3pmimport\f1 \- convert data file to Performance Co-Pilot archive log
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3$PCP_BINADM_DIR/pmimport\f1
[\f3\-l\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2hostname\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
\f2plugin\f1
\f2input\f1
\f2output\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmimport
will convert various data file types to Performance Co-Pilot (PCP)
archive logs. Archive logs may be `played back' by other PCP tools
(see
.BR PCPIntro (1)).
These logs form the basis of the VCR paradigm and retrospective
performance analysis services common to the PCP toolkit.
.PP
.B pmimport
takes three mandatory arguments.
The
.I plugin
argument specifies the converter that
.B pmimport
will use to convert the
.I input
to
.IR output ,
where
.I input
is a file in a foreign format while
.I output
is a PCP archive log.  To use a custom converter, which is not in the default
plugins directory, the path to the plugin shared library can be specified
with the plugin name. 
.SH OPTIONS
The command line options are:
.TP
.BI -h " hostname"
Specify
.I hostname
as the source of the performance metrics, overriding what
.B pmimport
may believe is the metrics source.  If the 
.I input
file format does not contain this information, then this option is
mandatory.  For example, the Irix 6.2 version of sar does not store
the hostname, and therefore it must be given on the command line.
.TP
.B -l
List the available default plugins that can be used.
.TP
.BI -Z " timezone"
Use
.I timezone
when creating
.IR output .
By default,
.B pmimport
will use the environment variable
.B TZ
(see
.BR environ (5))
or the timezone from
.I input
(assuming that the input file format contains timezone information).
.SH CONVERTERS
.B pmimport
is supplied with a set of plugin converters, which include:
.TP
.B sar_irix6.2_32
IRIX 6.2 32bit sar/sadc binary data files
.TP
.B sar_irix6.2_64
IRIX 6.2 64bit sar/sadc binary data files
.TP
.B sar_irix6.3
IRIX 6.3 sar/sadc binary data files (32bit only)
.TP
.B sar_irix6.4
IRIX 6.4 sar/sadc binary data files (64bit only)
.TP
.B sar_irix6.5 
IRIX 6.5 sar/sadc binary data files for both 32bit and 64bit
.TP
.B sar_unicos9.0
UNICOS 9.0 sar/sadc binary data files
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmimport/
default location of pmimport converter shared libraries.
.PD
.SH "PCP ENVIRONMENT"
Environment variables with the prefix
.B PCP_
are used to parameterize the file and directory names
used by PCP.
On each installation, the file
.I /etc/pcp.conf
contains the local values for these variables.
The
.B $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative
configuration file,
as described in
.BR pcp.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmdumplog (1),
.BR pmlogextract (1),
.BR pmlogmerge (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmimport (3)
and
.BR environ (5).
